four three two hello Andy what's up just
going CBD water I've never had CBD water
gt's kombucha sent us some CBD water my
first sip was a few seconds ago and I
didn't read that it said cucumber basil
so it's shocked by the taste but I like
it yeah that's what we're a combo right
yeah cucumber in it it's called
dreamcatcher which makes me think of
like white trash lady living in a
trailer park when them things hanging
over our bed partially broken on the
inside mullet weird cats if you have a
dreamcatcher most likely you have cats
right I think you have to have one it's
part of the program yeah it's a package
deal it's like you know what I saw
yesterday that is really rare I saw a
dude who was dressed up like a Native
American who was not in fact a Native
American that's a risky move in this day
and age yeah I'm not gonna go there and
we were kids you could be an Indian like
if you could play cowboys and Indians
you could be an Indian and I'd be like
oh okay yeah no problem
he's the Indian this guy's the cowboy
normal shit
today they will fucking come for you
that day is gone it's dead days over
yeah what happened I'm not smart enough
to answer that question but it's just a
freaking margin but some things have
taken place I mean during the time that
you were serving from 2001 to 2009 teen
where we're at today I mean there has
been a significant change in outraged
culture in this country in in
entitlement like things that people
think that they can get offended by and
not offended by things that are
important and not important so we're
another strangest time the beauty of
that is most the time I was serving so
it paid zero attention to any of it
right the disaster part of that is when
you come off the off-ramp you know out
of service yeah and you go what happened
yeah what happened to the environment
that I left but I mean I went from Santa
Cruz California where I grew up where it
could well be the origin of
outrage culture in social justice
warriors to the military to back out of
the military so I had very very
different optics when it comes to
perspective where I started and then
what I was seeing when I came out well
that's the that's the take that I always
see from people that are in the military
or have been in the military is their
understanding what's important and not
important it's so much different because
it's truly life-and-death not all the
time but I think if you are exposed to
that environment enough it'll
recalibrate your perspective of what's
important what's not yeah did you ever
read any Sebastian Junger I did these
tribes are a book yes read that off your
recommendation actually did it speak to
you like in terms of like your own
personal experience it made complete
sense I probably would have used
different terms in different places
throughout but the concept that he was
talking about absolutely made sense I
mean this so the SEAL Teams one of the
whether or not people live up to this an
argument could be made but one of the
key tenants is you know the Brotherhood
which is it just another way of talking
about a tribe yeah yeah I I just felt
like it was really interesting to me
like that book that one of the most
moving part of it was how connected
these people are when they're together
and when they're at war and what that
Brotherhood that camaraderie means to
them and how they feel disconnected when
they're back in regular civilization and
they get depressed it's like their life
had been led at such a such a high
vibration intensity so much so much on
the line it means so much everything
means so much there's so much dedication
so much commitment and then to go back
to the regular life is very very
difficult for a lot of people yeah I
don't think it would be unfair to say
that some of the people that I served
with I probably have closer
relationships than I do with my
biological family even probably I've
shared I don't know Nessa not it's not
that the things that we shared were
important but the value and our
connection was so tight that honestly
tighter than my definitely biological
family and potentially even my wife as
well too in my own kids and that's how
uh
well I think she understands it she gets
it you're gonna get in trouble bro
that's well I only get in trouble for my
wife on days that end in Y so nothing
that's gonna be new about that but but I
think she also understands that because
I certainly have struggled I struggled
quite a bit but about the first eighteen
months I got out of the military and I
look back on it now and I think two
pieces of it one I went from seeing
those people that I share those
experiences with on a daily basis so
there's that everything you have in
common we talk about stuff the same I
mean I just know the ins and outs of
those people then I became detached from
them and then I had I used to have what
I thought was a job that had an immense
amount of purpose and then that was gone
too so I lost a little bit of my
identity and a little bit of the purpose
and at that same time like I said I come
off that off-ramp of being in the
military and I'm looking at the world it
doesn't make any sense to me at all
people are arguing about things and
talking about how they're oppressed
while they're standing in a Starbucks
line paying for a coffee that cost more
per ounce than gallon of gasoline
you know stuff that probably couldn't be
you know you could couch it in terms
other than oppression and none of it
made sense and you just it's it's rough
when you get detached from that
environment well especially in your
situation you were wounded and you you
know although you wanted to continue
serving you physically weren't able to
anything I was for a while so I got hurt
in February of 2005 the 14-year 15 year
now 14 year anniversary was earlier this
month and it took me about two years to
work my way back to where I would become
operational again and I did one more
deployment after I got hurt and then at
the tail end of that deployment that was
just the end of it my body wouldn't
tolerate it anymore and this is because
of the metal fragments or wood it what
is it totally you there was a nerve
damage
it was the so I got medically retired
which is not based off of any one
instant hopefully I mean people who have
they get an AED strike and they'll
become a quad amputee or a triple
amputee that's one incident that they're
gonna get retired for for me it was more
the culmination of a lot of things so
the gunshot wound obviously didn't help
and then the operational history of
exposure to explosive blasts the
concussive forces all of those things
just kind of added up I went through a
30-day protocol where they baseline me
and took a bunch of tests and basically
came to the you know they write out a
massive document of all the things they
were able to at least document like for
me I can't get an MRI because I still
have metal in my body from ferrous metal
from the round that clipped a piece of
rebar on its way to me oh wow
and it clipped my sciatic nerve on the
way in and they're concerned that if
they image me or what I've been told by
the doctors if they image me it might
react again with my sciatic nerve just
pull a piece of metal by it and I'll be
right back where I was all I had drop
foot for about six months
and the drop foot is when your foot just
stops were totally hangs I could always
push down but I couldn't lift it up
that's the thing that's happening now in
MMA quite a bit it's happened several
times so guys get low calf kicked and
there's something about chopping at the
the nerves behind the leg that guy's
legs are just their foots going limp it
happened to Michael Chandler it happened
to Henry so who know are they recovering
from it yeah yeah I mean it's in the
middle of the fight so and then
momentary leg just stops working and
they can't stand on it their foot just
this literally doesn't react anymore so
frustrating so for me I got I got shot
in the hip high up on my left hand side
but by the time I made it to the
hospital my single complaint was my
ankle I was to tell me that like I I
didn't remember falling on my ankle I
didn't remember hitting my ankle but it
felt like somebody had taken a
sledgehammer and just beat it into
powder and so they were very careful and
then you know they cut my shoes off of
me they cut my pants off me and they the
first thing I did was take a x-ray of my
ankle no I dude you're totally fine but
it felt like it was destroyed because it
was the nerve they got interacted with
high up it's short-circuiting all the
way down to the terminal point of the
nerve and for me it never came back I'm
hoping that obviously for the fighters
it eventually comes back because I had
dropped foot for six months to a year
I eventually was able to start dorsal
flexing my foot again but I still can't
feel my left leg from the knee cap down
on the side excited the far left hand
side and as it wraps over the top of my
foot is completely numb and is this
because of the actual damage to the
nerve
or something touching the nerve they
don't know that was an interesting part
of being hurt as well is talking to
people who have decades of medical
experience and having them look at you
and go I don't know
fuck yeah especially without an MRI
right because they can't they can't in
there because they're worried about it
being pulled out same thing why the
concussion history that I have it's an
estimate based off of operational
history because they can't throw me in
that same machine and image my brain oh
whoa it's spitting magnets and right I
made it and then there's metal all over
the left hand side of my pelvis and I
don't know how much it would have to
move but if it just clipped that nerve
again I mean it was probably one of the
more difficult times in my life my leg
felt like it was on fire 24 hours a day
Oh which I could ignore during the
daytime but where it got me was at
nighttime I would lay down in bed and it
just felt like I had dipped my leg and
gas and just and put a lighter onto it
so I was on high dosages of like
gabapentin and rotten which our central
nervous system suppressors so I started
feeling the cognitive effect of that so
I backed myself off of that wasn't in a
great phase of my life so I was of
course washing those down with massive
amounts of alcohol taking three to four
ambien staying awake because my
tolerance to all that stuff was so high
and the last thing I ever want to do is
go through that again so I'm gonna stay
away from the spinning magnets it's just
I mean it might be a quarter of an inch
and I'd be exactly right back where I
was before and there's no way they can
go in and pull those fragments out so my
I'm laying in the hospital in Baghdad
and the night that I got hurt many other
people got hurt eight people got hurt on
that particular target I was one of the
least injured there were people who
immediately flown into surgery a guy
almost lost his arm
a guy took a he was right next to an
explosive blast that literally peeled
back the layers of his ballistic helmet
he was conscious but blind he'd taken
such a shot to his head he ejected out
the back side of a building there was
some other gunshot wounds so I'm laying
in the hospital bed I hadn't taken any
morphine because I had watched too many
movies and I thought if I had
auto-injector syrettes on me at all
times but I thought
job myself I was gonna start drooling no
experience with whatsoever and the
doctors finally start working on me and
he says all right you know I'm we're
gonna take a look at this I'm gonna you
know I'm gonna basically stick my finger
in the hole with this take a pause here
sir can I have some pain medication so
he comes out and just juices me with
morphine first time I've ever had it was
I wish I would have taken it in the
field it did almost nothing and they
played around a little bit with the
holes and then slipped me into an x-ray
machine and said do you want us to try
to take this out and I said well what
does that can entail and he said well
because we can tell that there's ferrous
metal in here what we would do is we
would knock you out put a tube down your
throat lay you on your stomach and hold
up a two dimensional x-ray and basically
just start slicing and pulling apart
slicing and pulling apart looking and
searching for these metal pieces and
pulling them out of your body one at a
time and I said is there another option
he's like oh yeah totally the body will
encapsulate it in calcium and as long as
it's not touching a bone you're probably
gonna be fine fuck man why didn't you
lead with that option right well did
they think they were gonna be able to
get them all out though if they did go
in there and start slicing away I don't
know and I don't know what benefit it
would have had I suspect it would have
caused more damage hmm than the actual
injury itself my hip is fine I still
have never had a surgery I've still
never broken a bone the only thing they
ever did was put a gauze pad on my leg
and when the scab fell off I could start
taking a bath again if I wanted to Wow
yep they just left everything in there
Jesus that's crazy it's all covered
Bazaar Wow so if you do have an injury
now that it's is it a lot of guesswork
like if something's wrong with your leg
do they have to like go in there with a
scope like since you can't get an MRI
like what if you blew your knee out they
would have to rely on imagery technology
that doesn't revolve around magnets so
most likely I'm not - I think they gave
me a cat scan in the hospital so that I
don't think is magnet based and then
two-dimensional x-ray well it's
interesting too because some of the
therapies they're using on people for
TBI is magnets yeah but I don't think
they're as powerful as an MRI I mean you
can't even wear earrings
those rooms we get with an MRI I've
heard about some kid who accidentally
died because they had an oxygen tank in
the room they turned the machine on the
tanks slammed into him and crushed him
yeah I've heard about the TBI magnets
that I think I would be fine with
because I don't think it has the power
the that the huge machines do right
right
it's yeah it's like a low-frequency
magnetic pulse that's like cat Zingano
who's a UFC fighter she essentially was
she was she had been hurt and really bad
in a fight with Amanda Nunez and she got
hypothyroid condition from that fight
her thyroid wasn't functioning correctly
she was gaining weight like crazy she
was her motor skills were all fucked up
and they fixed her with that and that
was from the brain injury mm-hmm yeah
for a fight she won which is crazy I
mean she was hurt really bad in the
first round stopped her in the third
round she won the fight she beat Amanda
Nunez and you know really suffered some
significant brain trauma from that fight
there is a I don't want to say there's a
rash of suicides in the SEAL team
specifically obviously the number 22 is
throwing out a lot when it comes to
veteran suicides but that's what is it
22% 22 veterans a day I said is the
number that is often touted I am
hesitant to say that number is accurate
because if you look at how it was
derived it wasn't they could have done a
better job of getting that number and I
and I don't want to say inside of the
SEAL Teams that there's a suicide issue
even though I do know a few people that
have committed suicide and they were the
ones that I would least expect it from
but they were also the ones who had
quite a bit of high operational tempo
and the one thing that I don't think
especially in the military medicine
world they understand well as traumatic
brain injury and the impact it has
long-term yeah and how easy it can be
because you know this I've heard you
talk about it before you don't have to
get knocked out to get a brain injury
right and I know I've countless times
where I either did something dumb or was
just standing in the wrong place or had
a hard parachute opening and I cracked
my head against the metal risers and
your head hurts for the rest of the day
yeah
and it's I've seen the change in
behavior in some people and I know the
stuff that's tied to it as well the low
hormones all of that stuff there that is
happening I think at the highest levels
in the military probably military why
but specifically those people who were
kind of more on the front leading edge
of combat operations and I think as a
country were in a word a total unknown
area because we're in a sustained period
of war long and we've ever been as a
nation and nobody knows the outcome of
that and people who I would have never
guessed would make the decision to take
their own life I'll get a text and pay
you know so-and-so just went out into
the woods and it no other external
injury no other marker than obviously
something happened in the geometry
between their ears that caused them to
make that decision and I suspect it's
from the repeated exposure to the brain
injury yeah it's something that people
are just starting to understand over the
last couple of decades I mean obviously
there was a focus that concussion movie
and you know I don't know if you saw
that Bob Costas was actually pulled from
football and they had told him that he'd
crossed the line the announcer of causes
they pulled him they pulled him from
doing what what event was it was it from
the Superbowl yeah because he was
talking about traumatic brain injury and
the realities of it and they said you
crossed the line he's like I crossed the
line by talking about reality when it
honest and open procedure that's not
cool I mean that's what he does I mean
that is Bob Costas is an entire hook but
I mean he's he's a brilliant guy but
this this problem was so poorly
understood just two decades ago so
everyone's just sort of coming to this
realization that I mean according to dr.
mark Gordon who have I've had on who
works with the warrior angel foundation
Andrew Mars setup where they're helping
all these veterans and have traumatic
brain injuries and I've had mr. gordon
on several times he says you can get
traumatic brain injuries from things
that don't even remotely knock you out
he's like people get them from doing
moguls when they ski they get them from
from your brain just well get them from
jet skis bouncing around on jet skis I
mean you can get it from
minor car accident you can have a
traumatic brain injury and for guys like
me that got hit in the head for years
who knows what the fuck is going on in
there you know and for professional
fighters it's you know it's almost
inevitable for football players it's
even worse you know for football players
they did some crazy study and I know we
quoted it and I don't remember what the
numbers was but it's some insane number
like in the high eighty percent of
people from high school on through
college and into the professionals have
TBI or CTE or the some signs of
traumatic brain injury I'd be surprised
that they didn't give them they're
fucking crazy it gets it is interesting
to like I was saying so when I got
medically retired they sent me to a
medical facility called nyko which is
attached to Walter Reed and it's the
best care that I ever received because
it's a civilian facility it's called the
national intrepid center of excellence
we did a lot of work with them back in
the day for the UFC the UFC raised a
bunch of money for that really yeah well
the money was well spent because I went
there and I probably would not have been
medically retired he died not because I
left with literally a hundred and fifty
page dossier
but it's interesting tying it back to
TBI because I spent a lot of time as a
requirement talking to psychologists and
psychiatrists and it the TBI pts in the
military gets interesting because it
seems like they're treated as different
issues and I'm probably misquoting the
number a little bit I think there's 13
recognized symptoms of both but there's
an overlay of like 11 so I can't
remember anything symptoms off the top
of my head but you could describe one
and it could ply both to TBI and
post-traumatic stress so it gets even
more muddled on how are you treating
somebody for a brain injury are you
treating somebody for a post-traumatic
stress are you lumping everybody
together it's just because I see a lot
of people and specifically a lot of
veterans getting stuck in that world
where they've it's a lot of focus on pts
but the reality is it could just be from
the trauma received over a career or you
know nearly two decades for most people
to make it to retirement it's really
hard to tell well apparently blasts are
a big one right like blowing down door
because he would just step away and you
brace yourself the impact of just the
air the concussive forcing of it this is
devastating for your brain the human
brain apparently is just so much more
delicate and sensitive than anyone could
have ever guessed well an concussive
blast or telephone because they travel
so you're internally in a building and
you find a door that's at the end of a
hallway even if you go all the way down
to the end of the hallway and around the
corner the blasts can still get you
because it will come down off the door
reflect off of the hallway and still
rock you Jesus yeah it's it's I thought
I had a good hiding spot more than once
oh that heard Oh more than one occasion
or you're working with a bunch of
assholes who take all the good hiding
spots damn it
just turn around and just ball up and
there's not really much you can do about
that right I mean if you have to blow
down that door someone has to be there
to detonate you have to be close enough
for it to activate right how are they
doing it wirelessly they might be doing
it wirelessly now
when I was in was called no Nell and it
basically it's or shock tube so you put
a charge wherever adult a gate a door a
wall and you basically have to attach
and initiate or to it because the charge
isn't gonna go off by itself so you need
a highly reactive charge to set off an
explosive that is less reactive you keep
him separate obviously for safety except
for the main breacher he probably has at
least one hooked up so he can be really
fast but then you just extend that flash
tube and it's they come in long reels I
mean that you can get 30 40 50 feet and
each charge mathematically we do math on
it to determine the minimum safe
distance out of every charge and it's
written on the charge so you know how
far you can get away but sometimes
you're in a situation where like I said
that you think you got an awesome hiding
spot and the guy lays out the flash tube
and he's getting ready to fire it off
and you realize that you're staring
directly at the charge you have nowhere
to hide no Jews and they're not gonna
wait on you
so it's turn around cover up into a ball
and eat it oh this is our a best way to
eat it
open your mouth and cover your ears
immediately yeah open your mouth
yeah allow it sits instead of
overloading like your sinus cavities and
your ear canal so you can cover your
ears and open your mouth it helps if
something's gonna go off really close to
you open your mouth and cover your ears
yep what what what's the difference
between opening and closing the mouth
the effect of the wave am i
understanding that contain pressure
inside of your body as opposed to giving
it a an avenue to escape Jesus Christ
one of the things they're realizing
apparently about concussions is that
even just getting hit in the chest can
give you a concussion from them yeah the
head because you're you know you get hit
in the in the chest and you're like I
didn't even get hit in the head we got
just getting hit in the chest makes your
head snap and it makes your brain swoosh
around inside your head and that's what
gives you an injury I just remember
earlier on I mean like in the mid-2000s
it wasn't the only question was does
your head hurt like that was the
beginning of whether or not you might
have sustained a concussion and then
obviously learning much more now and
where we're at it's like yeah you may
not have even had any sensation in your
head but you know it's kind of crazy
when you think about how long people
have been studying the human body and
this is just something they've really
got a real understanding of in the last
couple of decades I don't even know if I
would characterize it as a real
understanding I think they're farther
along than they were to two decades ago
but I think the amount we know versus
the amount that we don't know is much
more weighted on the amount we don't
know yeah I went to a high school
football game recently because my
daughter was doing this cheerleading
thing and I watch these kids collide
with each other and I'm like me a
fucking fight commentator you know and
I'm watching this my kid out of there
stop doing it yeah it's just to me it's
I don't know it's I guess people I get
that people enjoy the game I understand
it I mean I think there's a lot of
things in life I mean I'm talking to you
the world record squirrel suit flying
jump man so when I talk about risk and
reward maybe the wrong person to discuss
this with but yeah my risk versus reward
wears out for you so far you're here
today
yeah I mean you're jumping off fucking
mountains with a flying squirrel suit if
you're here you've obviously got it
nailed I'm on pause for the Bay
jumping for the time being did mrs.
stump step in and put the kibosh on for
the first time she asked me to stop no
June of last year but of course it was
tied to a very close friend who did a
jump didn't go the way he wanted it to
go or anybody would she happened to know
him and it really was the it was the
first time that I seriously considered
giving it up I haven't touched a
wingsuit since my buddy Alex died and he
was my main BASE jumping partner
overseas on most of the trips that I had
done
and I I'm not gonna say I shepherded him
into the sport but I was there with him
on his first jump off of a cliff in
Italy the first time you put a wingsuit
on and it's uh that one's stung a bit so
it's on pause potentially forever as far
as BASE jumping goes I'll still skydive
but it's it's a question mark on the
BASE jumping so you do such risky shit
this guy that was like a skydiving
that's no big just guy dive I'll jump
out of a fucking plane that I would do
with my eyes closed every day that's the
night risk ratio on that one is were
we're all set what is the risk ratio on
skydiving like what percentage of those
things go wrong incredibly low so that
you have a main parachute and a reserve
parachute I don't think there has been a
true double failure meaning your main
parachute malfunctions you cut it away
properly and deploy your reserve
parachute and have that also fail in
20-some years people die
skydiving all the time well not all the
time because I guess it you know the
population of people that do it is not
huge but I would say the vast majority
of people who died skydiving they they
kill themselves they make a poor
decision and most people who die
skydiving died under perfectly
functioning equipment really so the the
canopy size the main canopy that you're
flying the wing over your head the
smaller it is the faster it goes the
faster it descends but also quite
frankly the more fun it is but with fun
there's consequence
so there are canopies that you can
initiate a turn and if you initiate the
turn to low you cannot pull the canopy
out
the turn you will impact the ground at a
high rate of speed regardless of what
you do and if you get under that canopy
with not enough experience obviously
your odds of making a bad decision are
going to go through the roof
so most injuries and fatalities at least
from the stuff I have seen is from
people making poor decisions under good
equipment or choosing to execute an
emergency procedure which would be
cutting away your main parachute and
deploying reserve either out of sequence
or doing it too low where the reserve
parachute doesn't have time to open to
me that's not a failure of the parachute
system that's the failure of the
individual who is driving that parachute
system so if you have a main parachute
and you jump out and you hit the main
parachute and there's a malfunction how
do you cut it off to put to get the
other one so there's two pillows one on
each side the right hand side you
literally need to do this in the correct
order even though people have killed
himself by going backwards so you pull
to full arm extension you it's literally
just a pillow with velcro that has two
cables and the cables are what's
actually holding the parachute on your
shoulders if you pull that out a 3-ring
release system which is basically just a
load reduction system unwinds itself and
your parachutes gone and you're going
back into freefall and you just pull the
other pillow it sounds worse than it is
and before I had my first cutaway it was
terrifying and then after you have four
or five you're like okay I got this you
had four or five main parachutes fail I
think I'm at about seven well I've been
jumping for twenty years I started
jumping in 99 statistically I'm actually
I think under uh I think it's like one
in every eight hundred and eighty eight
jumps you'll have a malfunction or a
gear failure it's honestly like it's
your first one is an emotional
experience I would imagine you said what
was the first one uh
deploying a parachute and just sitting
there looking at it as it's because they
want to open and you can I can tell now
and within an instant of trying to
deploy my parachute whether or not it's
gonna open or not just by looking at the
shape by sometimes listening to it and
just seeing how it opens sometimes I
mean so packing a parachute people think
is really difficult if you can fold a
t-shirt you can pack a parachute
sometimes though you you know you just
get off of a jump and you only have
minutes to make the next jump so you
skip a few steps or you rush through a
few steps is that what happened with you
potentially I may have skipped all of
the non-essential steps and a few of the
essential steps to get the parachute
really
I was just rushing and I didn't have a
lot of experience so I was stuffing the
thing in there and when I tried to
deploy the parachute it just it was
asymmetrical so sometimes it'll it'll
open and it'll start spinning and then
you're flying with your back to the it
gets that would be considered an
exciting moment I would say so what
happened with you what exactly went
wrong I just came out asymmetrically the
parachute wasn't opening and were you
spinning no I wasn't I actually was able
to recognize just by it should come out
it looks like a rectangle more than
anything but if you look like a
rectangle that's twisted there's no way
to fix that no way so just get rid of it
and that's what I did I looked up and I
said okay that's not gonna work
reach pull reach pull and your reserve
opens so fast like by the time I felt
like by the time I had pulled the
reserve handle because I had to handle
that point by the time I had moved my
arm to three-quarters of extension it
had fired off Wow yeah dude
but the difference and you're asking the
difference like why is risk skydiving
lower it's because you have time
thousands of feet whereas BASE jumping
you might have hundreds or if you're
really pushing the envelope you might
have sub ten feet because you're flying
close to the ground as fast you can go
did your friend Alex who died did he die
BASE jumping or died wingsuit BASE
jumping something that I was I mean he
was my main BASE jumping partner what is
the difference between wingsuit BASE
jumping and regular base jump regular
base jumping you just have a quick
deploy parachute right so you have one
parachute system when you base jump
instead of two because there is not time
for reserve to open so that is just
taken out of the system right so you
pack your primary or only parachute very
similar to a reserve it's designed to
open rapidly it's designed to take a lot
of load but so BASE jumping is just
jumping off of a static object base
stands for building antenna span or
earth so four types of object the
addition of the wingsuit is really the
only difference which allows you to like
for myself personally I'm not a huge fan
of jumping off buildings in cliffs
without a wingsuit because I don't like
being from me to that flag when a
parachute opens because if it doesn't
open exactly in the direction you want
it to you better be johnny-on-the-spot
or you're gonna have a fucking problem
so it's to me if you have enough
altitude you put a wing suit on and two
or three seconds the suit is mocking
forward so then you're hundreds if not
thousands of feet away from the object
then your parachute can open up however
you want it to have they made any
improvements in the technology of this
stuff since you first started jumping
huge improvements I mean the first wing
suits were literally just fabric that
had like the little thumb loops you'll
find on like cold-weather long-sleeve
shirts sometimes seriously like Patra it
on that's how they kept it on I didn't
job any of those goddamn things but I
mean I think Patrick de garden is how
you say his name he was one of the first
and they would just sit there and just
they would just jam their appendages and
lock him out and use their entire
musculature to sail this fabric as far
out as they could get fuck and then the
suits now are unbelievable so each wing
like the wing between your legs and the
wing between each of your arms so
there's three of them they're totally
independent they have a ram air opening
so the air rushes into that and makes
the wing semi rigid so it reduces the
stress on your body and they flight
characteristics are insane you can go
you can get the suit flying faster you
can fly it flatter you can float it
everything about it is improved except
for the decision-making process of the
monkey who's actually jumping in that's
the original one Jamie how that guy's
dead for sure
it says Manus Micky Morgan where he's
that wingsuit is that ridiculous who is
the first fucking psycho that thought
that this was something that they should
try it could potentially oh my god
this guy's like he looks like he's
living in the 1800s when did they invent
these fucking things I don't know I know
one of these guys died going off the
Eiffel Tower in an exhibition this is
1900 right here 1900 what in the fuck
look at that guy strong you know what
man if you
living in 1900 you probably like lists
and I let's just get this over living in
1907 whiskey's illegal I'm just jumping
off look at that that is crazy
so that see that yeah I mean that's I
mean honestly I'm not gonna lie I would
probably jump that out of airplane T 95
oh he's the inventor Earl Stein he died
in the first attempt oh Jesus Christ
he died in the first attempt honored to
a modern hero alright settle down but
here's the thing Joe there's like 60
some people who are associated with the
modern-day wingsuit and testing and
evaluating to get it to this point
mm-hmm they're all dead all of them are
dead every one of them but that suit
like I mean that suit and the difference
between that and where we are now it's
it's night and day
but everyone involved in the creation of
these wingsuits died in a wingsuit yep
fuck man yep that is not good like it
wouldn't be a whole lot of black belts
and jiu-jitsu everyone who got to a
certain point died you know I'm saying
it's hard to justify rationalize the
behavior for sure I'll be the first
person to know what is it like what what
is it about you gotta jump with his dog
that's Dean Potter we're jumping with
his dog oh the port dog so the dog the
dog's fault the dog I believe is that
looks like Switzerland crazy asshole
fucking owner so Dean was insane right
he's a world-class rock climber he's
also dead from jumping a wingsuit he
died in Yosemite it's like I said the
technology advances I am not I was not
there the day that Dean died I've talked
to people who have looked at it as to
the conditions that led up to it
and one thing people generally don't
want to do is place the responsibility
on the individual making the choice but
what from everything that I have seen he
made a choice to jump at a time when he
should not have been jumping due to
visual conditions so even though the
suits are amazing really the only thing
that doesn't seem to be evolving is the
person that's that's jumping it most of
the time just like skydiving it's just a
human being making a very poor choice to
include Alex what is it about people and
I mean particularly people like yourself
that love these thrills like what are
you getting at what are you getting out
of that other than this mad adrenaline
rush and what is it like what motivates
you to keep doing that so I look back at
it objectively yeah I think when I
initially started pushing hard down that
path I was trying to replicate a
headspace or a feeling or a sensation
that I had in my old job so if you want
to talk about clarity of thought and I
think you know we might have talked
about this the very first time that we
sat down stripping away all in Soleri
bullshit that has absolutely no meaning
but for me at least spend I spend 99% of
my time worrying about things that have
no impact whatsoever right so you sit on
a helicopter pick the battlespace that
you're in you get a five-minute warning
and you really stop worrying about
whether or not you have enough money in
your checking account to cover your
mortgage and then you get a three minute
warning and then you kind of stop
worrying about whether or not you just
had an argument with your wife or you
just sent off some snarky email then you
get a one-minute warning and a 30-second
warning and the closer and closer and
closer you get everything is gone and it
is still to this day the sensation and
state that I have been in that is by far
I had no question about my purpose and I
had the utmost clarity that I've ever
experienced in my life and you get you
get used to operating in that headspace
of just being in the moment the first 1
2 3 seconds in front nothing else
matters I'm gonna solve this problem and
move on to the next one this problem
move on to the next one well then I lost
that ability to do that and it sucked
because I liked operating in that
headspace because it it helped me deal
with all the other bullshit in my life
because it reset for me my what matters
and what doesn't matter ratio I was able
to get rid of like I would describe it
adjust the white noise in my head or
another way I'll describe it is like
Jamie's got a bunch of levers that he
can push up I think in this I'm included
in this I think most people are pegged
out at a 10 almost all the time they're
fucking white-knuckling through life but
if you can get into that state
where you have that clarity of purpose
clarity of focus I felt like it pulled
everything back to a three and so that
state helped me in things had nothing to
do with that activity and it lasted for
a long time so when you're BASE jumping
and you're standing on a cliff and
you're scared out of your mind
and you can't talk as your mouth is so
dry and you have the pea ring on your
suit which is why you always get dark
suit so people can't see your pea ring
and every alarm bell in your body is
telling you don't jump and it had the
same experience I wasn't worried about
checking account
I wasn't worried about what was going on
in life I was just living in that moment
and it helped me be a better dad it
helped me be a better husband it helped
me be better at any business decision
that I need to make cuz it allowed me to
pull all of those stereo levers back
down so it's less for me and I can only
speak for me
it's less about thrill-seeking because I
get that all the time like you're an
adrenalin junkie like huh
I enjoy I'm gonna adrenaline enthusiast
I certainly enjoy that but I actually
like what I get from the activity more
than the activity itself what do you
think is going on where people are
pegged at 10 all the time with nonsense
and that's something that's
life-threatening can bring it back to a3
and offer clarity I mean it has to be
something that you've discussed or
thought about in depth I just think it
helps you Control Alt Delete your hard
drive a little bit it helps by not
having like when I'm standing on a cliff
right before I get ready to jump there
is absolutely nothing that I am thinking
about other than where I want to be in
the next 3 seconds and by being able to
focus on something so singular and maybe
I don't meditate but I've heard people
talking about it by the email to clear
your mind it helps them deal with
everything else I think there might be
some connection there but I just I just
think that the removal of the noise that
bombards everybody all day long even for
a little bit helps you it's uh you know
you you have iPod or not i po iphone and
head so headphones for sure right mm-hmm
you ever notice like when you're
listening to it you
listen at the same volume level but then
it just doesn't seem to be as loud so
what do you do you click it up a notch
right and then you get used to that
volume level and then you click it up a
notch and then use that volume of a
receptor downgrade phenomenom your body
gets used to it so it adapts to it but
if you pull that stimulus out and leave
it at that high volume but listen to it
like two weeks later it's gonna blow
your ears out mmm it'll seem loud it's
not gonna blow your ears out but it's
gonna seem much louder than it would if
you slowly just incrementally started
adding that volume so if it's there's
something in there that is allowing me
and I'm not recommending that anybody
pursue therapy via the directions that I
do but there's something in there that's
allowing me to instead of add and add
and add an ad that activity allows me to
detach and then when I come back to it I
realize you know it just it just feels
different for me that's and I don't know
if that's a good description of the
mechanism but that's the best that I can
probably describe it well I know a lot
of veterans come back and really get
involved in martial arts martial arts
apparently is is good for along the same
lines the same sort of noise reduction
yep especially jujitsu when someone's
trying to strangle you and you're
fighting for your life and they're
mounting you and trying to look so
familiar with this now yeah I don't know
what you're talking about being
strangled or choked or having a huge
person lay on your chest and breathe
he's lying about being 220 she could
have said 219 I'm not even sure he's
lying
there's no I'm 200 pounds he's fucking
18 feet taller than me there's no way
yeah this just doesn't even make sense
well I I don't have enough experience
with jujitsu to to truly speak about the
long term benefit but what I can say is
this if I stop BASE jumping what I will
replace that avid activity with is more
jiu-jitsu because what you just
described when somebody is literally
when you're simulating murder yes right
in your pajamas and somebody is trying
to choke you to death yeah you are not
thinking about anything else
about anything else you know one thing
that I do do that's weird is I have
songs playing in my head well you also
probably have a few more reps than most
people so you can have that
capacity for songs in your head but
they're weird songs like Christina
Aguilera I am beautiful like sometimes
that'll be playing if I'm rolling but
this song it's like it's almost like it
sounds strange I never talked about this
before but it's almost like like a
mantra like a play certain parts of the
song over and over again in my head so
that I can think about that instead of
the the actual the actual training and
the actual strangling but you also have
I don't want to use the term master
because I don't know if you can master
it but where you are you are at a like
when you roll with somebody I was
talking with somebody about this not too
long ago when I roll with the black belt
the outcome is preordained right unless
they bought their black belt at Macy's
and they're pretending in which case I
don't know I still don't know enough it
might be preordained but the difference
in what I am thinking about versus what
would happen if you and I roll in what
you are thinking about or is gonna be
massive so I don't have the harddrive
space to sing Christina Aguilera yeah
and you probably don't even remember
half of the things that you do when you
roll or how you think about it because
you have experienced it so many times
the weirdest thing about jujitsu and
training and you know you could say this
about striking as well is sometimes
things happen and you didn't even think
about doing them you just did it those
are the weirdest moments like there's
sometimes we you'll you'll kick somebody
you like someone will move and you'll
you'll move and then before you know it
you're like wow I didn't even think
about throwing that and it lands it's
like your your your brain recognizes oh
I know what happens here you know you
step to the left and throw that left
kick and it just lands you just nowhere
to go and then the same thing happens
with jiu-jitsu like sometimes there's a
scramble and in the scramble all of a
sudden you're choking somebody it's like
this this movement happens and your body
just falls into place I'll let you know
if I ever experience that particularly
well it doesn't happen all the time it's
just there's moments where you're like
particularly if you do a lot of drilling
which I don't know how much drilling
you're doing but this one of the things
that I it made me way better when I
first started training with Eddie Bravo
one of the things that we did a lot from
white belt to blue belt our
was a lot of drills a lot of drills just
constant drilling and drilling is
overlooked and underappreciated because
sparring is so fun so like if you and
Jamie we're both learning together you
would do a few drills okay here's how
you do the armbar you're gonna secure
the arm you know swivel the hips throw
your leg over and tap good okay now your
turn you do it over and over again
that's fun that's fun okay now it's far
like all right but take it easy guys
work on the technique yeah it's a guys
we're gonna technique but if you could
spend more time drilling and less time
rolling you'll be way better at rolling
the whole idea is to discard these paths
in your mind you know and then you when
you see someone who like hits a perfect
'man re-roll like that is not the first
time they've done that you know there's
there's there's so many like super super
high level guys now that you could watch
on YouTube and you can watch them
execute these techniques yeah and the
thing that you're seeing more than
anything is like how fluid everything is
and how easily everything flows because
there's so much efficiency in their
movement because they've done it over
and over and over and but drilling is
everything and it's the thing that
people do the least of so I go when I'm
home I'd go five days a week and I I go
to the so you met Travis today Ami's
owner of the owner of SPG Kalispell
which is where I train I mean I couldn't
have planned it better it's like four
miles from my house that's amazing the
middle of Mullen up the middle the
northwest corner of Montana to have that
there is unbelievable how far you from
Bozeman
as the crow flies maybe 200 some miles
but the drive there is lightnin l it's
not straight mountains Risley bears yeah
swear Pass seen any grizzly since you've
been moved there no no they're fucking
everywhere they're waiting for you Ron I
don't leave my house I just I don't like
to you know I just hang out with myself
I have conversations but I'll do I do an
hour and a lot of it is just drill bass
for that hour and then there's an open
mat afterwards okay so I'm getting I
mean I feel like I'm getting a good mix
of both and for me I met the face like
I'm such in the alphabet face so I'm
like a b-boy like letters together into
words later
and when I roll I just tell myself you
know maybe just focus on the fundamental
so you don't need to create new
techniques right and overall that's true
and I try to relax and use zero strength
mmm because I am bigger than most people
that are there and I don't I've heard
enough times that if you rely on your
attributes early on what's gonna end up
happening is you'll have success early
and then you're gonna nosedive because
yes and so I'm just trying to go the
other route just be as calm as possible
use as little as strengths as possible
and just tap early and tap off it's my
favorite move yeah another good thing to
do is work off your back because you're
a big guy that's where I started I
actually asked it I said can you just
teach me the worst position ever and
I'll try to build up from there and I
don't care about offense I'd rather
learn defense that's that's very
intelligent of you that's something a
lot of people don't do and I certainly
didn't do I was just trying to choke
people quick like what could I what
could I do but if you can get really
comfortable with your defense it's the
most important thing like Hicks and
Gracie's always said that he's like the
most important things to be safe he's
like I'm always safe he goes no matter
where I'm or he would have
Hixton would have real like high level
black belts start on his back with a
fully locked in rear naked choke really
and then he would defend and then he
would always tap them I mean honestly to
me that's like holding a 45-pound plate
up letting go and I just hovers I'm at
just yeah beyond my understanding how
they're able to do that well there's
levels you know there's levels to
everything I miss i opening when I
started I'm like ill yet like this is
obviously a simple recipe go to gym tap
people out there's nothing in-between I
got this and then after bike my first 20
minutes like oh shit it's humbly again
but so that's one of the best parts
about it like I know so my body tells me
like I know who I'm gonna have a really
really tough role with and they're
probably gonna beat me and I can feel it
bouncing against my ego but I if I just
go roll with that go over there I bet
you'll be successful and I feel that
inherently mm-hmm and I'll just go roll
with the person I know who is probably
gonna beat me because that I love that
choice one something that protects your
ego and something that keeps it in check
yeah because it is it is humbling and
I've been a dumbass I should
tapped earlier before and I'm sitting
there they completely have me locked in
but I'm gonna try to muscle my way out
of this and then my arm sore for three
weeks well it's actually important to do
both believe it or not it's important to
be humbled for sure it's important to
have a realistic perspective of your
abilities but it's also important to tap
people and so you know I always tell
people that like one of the best ways to
get really good is to strangle blue
belts get people that have like a little
bit a little bit of technique and they
have a little bit of understanding
what's going on and just put the choke
to them and but also drilling but then
you know you have to roll with people
that are legitimately far better than
you just for a perspective enhancer to
understand how quickly someone can close
the distance how quickly someone can
take advantage of an opportunity and and
then also the the feeling of being set
up to three steps in a row like one of
the things like when I roll with John
Jacques Machado is you know he's
multiple time world champion and you'll
see like especially over time the many
many many times of training with him
you'll see he's setting you up several
steps ahead if he's sweeping you two to
the left right he's sweeping you this
way he's expecting you to base yeah when
you base he's gonna adjust and when you
adjust to him adjusting he's gonna grab
your leg and then boom you're on your
back and like fuck yeah it's like he
already saw the path and you're just all
you're thinking of oh don't let him
sweep me yeah but he's sort of trying to
sweep you I mean if you just give in
like a bitch he'll sweep you but he's
really wanting you to base yeah and then
when you go to defend the base then he's
gonna trap you and then when you go to
try to adjust for the trap whoops
he's got your leg and you're on your
back and then his knees on your belly
like motherfucker yeah and he saw the
whole thing so many steps ahead I mean
it's a beautiful art form it really is
because you know I always say like about
the guys that I know that are like some
of the best guys in the world they're so
different than what you'd expect they're
really like nerd assassins yeah because
they're really smart because you're
thinking almost like it's it's like
kinetic chess you're thinking about all
these moves it's just that you can get
your chess pieces to move better than
other people's chess piece
can it's like chess but you can make
your chest if you do a lot of box jumps
and plyos and you know you do heavy duty
strength and conditioning routines you
can get your chess pieces to move better
you can get everything to you can give
your chess pieces more endurance you can
you know you can prolong your your
ability to train and roll it's been
great and like I said it you know in
those moments where you're getting
choked or I can't breathe like it's the
same type of focus it is the singular
goal in your life to not get murdered
yeah and I feel it for me it's been
crazy healthy I can't speak to the
larger veteran community but I can
absolutely say for me it's beneficial I
think it's beneficial for a lot of
veterans I talked to a lot of them that
trained and they've said that you know
and a lot of them gets super addicted
yeah you know they're they're they're
five six days a week and you know
wrapping up their elbows and the wrists
and taping up their fingers and they
don't give a fuck they just want to keep
going they'll literally roll like this
with one arm because their shoulders
blown out yeah I'm like you're not gonna
take time off I'm just gonna work around
it work around it which is not always
good because eventually you there I know
a lot of guys who've reached a point
where they're maybe could have rehabbed
something and now they have to have
surgery because they've kind of blown it
out to the point where it's fucking
dangling how much do you still roll very
little really yeah I wanna do it yeah
I've had some significant injuries I
really backed off a couple years ago
because I had some bulging discs that
were impacting my nerves and they were
making my hands hurt and my elbows hurt
and it was a my neck had some bulging
discs that were pressing against my
nerves and I got Regina keen on that I
did some spinal decompression and I
relieved all that then I tore some
meniscus and I had some shoulder
injuries the shoulder injuries yeah the
shoulder injuries were really bothersome
because it was also fucking with archery
and I was really worried about not being
able dumbfuck with archery yeah I love
it too much and so I rehabbed those
almost a hundred percent my left ones
still a little wonky but I'm ready to
roll I'm gonna do I'm gonna train with
John Jacques either this week or next
week and we're going to do a
so I'll get back into it once once that
happens so with you when did you start
do Jitsu 96 okay
so substantial period of time with that
amount of time off that you essentially
had to take what impact would that have
for you it'll have a little bit of
impact on my timing but luckily during
this entire time I've worked out very
hard okay so my body's physically in
very good shape like today I ran the
mountains for the first time in like six
weeks since my meniscus injury and it
seems to be a hundred percent I mean
maybe not a hundred percent but no pain
at all and I ran a good steep course or
it's you know like heavy-duty running in
in the hills and I was getting cysts
like recurring cysts because the where
the meniscus tear was there was some you
know it was loose and so like as I'm
pounding the blood would pull up and
then it would you know swell up and I
had to get it drained and they'd stick
this fucking fat needle in there and
suck all this puss out it was nasty so I
got exosomes and platelet-rich plasma
six weeks ago so from then I waited the
six weeks but during that time period I
mostly did that echo bike yeah that
rogue echo bike because it's not
impactful so it doesn't put that
pounding on the knee that was causing
the cyst but fuck man does that think
build your cardio up oh it's designed by
Satan it's amazing yeah Tabata z-- 22
2010 yeah 20 second sprint ten second
rest fuck those are incredible that bike
will give you everything that you're
willing to take yeah yeah yeah really
well so I'm really pleased with myself
that I didn't allow myself to get out of
shape because when I ran today I was
like Fox been six weeks is gonna be
brutal
it wasn't brutal it was normal because
I've been doing the echo bike so it's
maintained my cardiovascular level which
was always my weakest point but and so
your knowledge and experience base in
jiu-jitsu and I asked because like I
said I've been at this for six months
I'll take a week off for travel and I'll
go back to a class and I feel like I
have a massive disconnect between
knowledge and getting my body to work
because yeah and I suspect it's because
I'm thinking too much right whereas like
I was saying you you have the ability to
listen to Miley sighs turn your head or
what
her name Christina Aguilera I like Miley
Cyrus - awesome people are into weird
shit I'm not gonna put a value judgment
on that whereas I don't so even if I
take time off it's I I really really
struggle with it because I can't connect
dots so it's definitely there's a
difference though the the pathways get
sharper when I train more like last time
I was doing like serious training was
over a year ago and when I was doing
that like after a few sessions the
pathways sharpened and like you know you
clinch up there's less hesitation
there's more of an understanding of
what's got to take place it's more of
like a familiarity with training yeah
but you know as you get older you know
I'm 51 now the thing that happens is
your fucking joints and your your body
does not want to hold up to this
continued stress so you have to really
be careful about when to train and how
hard you train like my friend Eddie
Bravo is going through that right now he
has a fake disc now and his lower back
here there was a disc replaced with a
titanium articulating disc he had knee
surgery he had shoulder surgery and he
now he needs wrist surgery you know this
is all within like you know a couple
years and he's a couple years younger
than me so his body is hitting that that
point where this is years and years knee
is a strain and pull and choke and
resist and base and push and your body
just doesn't want to do that all the
time so you have to be you have to be
smart in terms of how much stress and
how much recovery you put on I think you
also have to be really smart about
working on your flexibility and working
on your recovery whether it's through
cryotherapy or sauna use or massage but
rest - you can't train like a fucking
wild demon six days a week when you're
50 you just can't you might get a couple
of days in hard but you also have to
understand like flow rolls
yeah flow rolls are giant it's the same
thing with flow sparring like I remember
some of the best gains that I made as a
kickboxer with training with guys who I
knew I could trust to not fucking brain
me like that we would tap each other and
so then you're carving pathways but
you're not taking the kind of abuse that
you take
if you're just going to because
sometimes sparring it's not really
sparring you're fighting you're fighting
people in the gym you just get together
and you lacing up your gloves you
tapping gloves they say go the bell goes
off and you're fucking full blasting
each other and it's this more common
than not especially in the early days I
kind of find that to be the case with
two white belts we're not saying because
you got to do the blood circle to make
sure nobody's gonna get hurt by the
freaking momentum yeah I don't sing
around the gym it's like hey buddy you
want to just work on that technique and
they look at you and go uh-huh I'm like
oh fuck yeah they're just trying to kill
ya they're trying to kill you yeah yeah
there's a lot of that it's really
uncomfortable when someone does that to
you to you like god dammit don't have to
do this with you you know like sometimes
you could choke them quick and they'll
calm down and sometimes it just makes
them more amped up and then depending on
the human I feel like I need to focus on
my chokes no it's not my strength now
are you mostly going G are you going no
G as well I do Morgie that nogi only
because it happens to work with my
schedule so Mondays and Friday I'd love
doing or I have loved doing the noogie
stuff that I have cuz it's so quick yeah
and I find that it rotates through a lot
of the different positions and I find
myself working out of other problems
more than I would in like a normal five
minute just to open role mm-hmm and I
realize how limited my offense is
because I like hold on to the pajamas
and write basically hold on to the
frickin doorknob on some of these caller
it makes sense to me now when I've heard
you talk before like yeah go ahead and
wear that sweatshirt now I'm like oh I
don't wanna wear someone wearing a tie
someone wear at a time like I'll kill
you with that tie I get a hold of that
tie you're a dead man even I goose
around your neck
zip up Hoodie oh yeah I'm like oh man
first obviously I would rub that zipper
across your neck but then you're getting
choked well how about a leather jacket
if you're fucking with someone in those
in the street and that someone's a judo
a player someone who knows judo and you
got like a thick ass winter coat and
they can you grab that shit brain you
with the world you know just drive your
fucking head into the concrete
it's been cool man I wish I wish I'd
found it earlier and I wish I hadn't
been so hesitant to try it earlier and
the reason I was a hundred percent
reason I was this cuz my own ego
yeah but the thing is it doesn't matter
like when I wish I had done it earlier
fuck all that you're doing it now
like that's it's important like it
doesn't matter when you start the thing
about jiu-jitsu is once you're on a path
just enjoy the path don't thank God I
should have started when I was eight
well you can't unless you have a fucking
time machine yeah and if you did goddamn
it I would not want to go back and be
eight years old and know everything I
know now and like it'd be like watching
a movie for the 100th time you bored out
of your mind well fuck it up I probably
wind up homeless just know your stock
portfolio would be amazing because of
all the noisy right you like Apple yes
these fuckers are gonna figure it out by
Apple at three let's get some Amazon
stock going like you kill it on that no
people be like what a big thing an
online book think trust me don't worry
about it put it all in there put all
your money on Facebook
what's the Facebook fuck you talking you
know David Cho
he painted Facebook he did like murals
for Facebook in their studio and they
paid him in stock and Wow
fucking hundreds hundreds means from
that and he's just ballin all over the
world on his Facebook stock they don't
seem to be doing too well these days
though not to stock necessarily a
company I keep seeing them in the news
for the wrong reasons yes that's a
really interesting point right you know
I've been focusing a lot on what like
the what these people are doing in terms
of social media and in terms of you know
what impact this has on our elections on
our culture how they're being influenced
there's a woman do we we privacy yeah we
booked that woman right Renee what is
her last name again she's got a
phenomenal podcast with Sam Harris
called the war of information and it's
either the information war the war of
information the Resta direst a-- renee
to Resta and she studied this
she studied these these Russian troll
farms and the impact they have and these
fake accounts online and what they'll do
is like suck for instance they set up
two
rallies across the street from each
other one was a Texas pride rally and
one was a Muslim rally this classic
pairing and they do it across the street
from each other on purpose so that
they'll interact with each other so that
people get there there's no one
organizing it because no there's no real
person on the ground because they're
doing everything from Russia and this is
just one example they do a lot of things
with with black lives matter and blue
lives matter they were having a lot of
C's there they were pairing them against
each other they were also they had black
pages that were supporting anyone but
Hillary this was their message anyone
but Hillary Hillary Clinton does not
support the black community we should
vote for Bernie Sanders we should vote
for Jill Stein we should vote for
anybody but Hillary and what they're
basically trying to do was weak in the
support that the Democrats traditionally
have from the black community and they
were there doing this through these
pages and there was not that many pages
when you find out there's like 80 pages
or a hundred pages they were running but
then you find out the amount of
interactions that they had with and
there's millions and millions and
millions of interactions so comments
likes shares and then people are this
message that they think is coming from
people from their community is actually
coming from Russia and it's actually a
calculated attempt to so descent and to
so the this conflict in America and the
idea is and it sounded so crazy to me
that you're like because I wasn't really
paying attention to it that much but the
idea is that they're trying to make us
fight against each other about
everything so that it fuck's up
democracy so they achieved that goal
whether or not they're responsible for
it or not but it certainly sends seems
like we're trending in that direction it
does I can't remember a time where
there's more conflict and more outrage
and more people willing to like jump
into the fray regardless of whether or
not they're informed what do you think
about the people who keep calling for
violence it drives me crazy because it's
people who don't understand violence I
was gonna say the same thing I see the
people most often doing it are the ones
that are the least experienced or
familiar with what violence actually
looks like well there was a lot of that
from Russia as well there's a lot of
fake and Tifa pages there was a lot of
that there was a
that where they were telling people that
the only way to get people to understand
is through violence and that you must be
willing to do whatever you can by any
means necessary and violence is good if
it achieves the desired result of peace
and prosperity and making sure the
progressive ideas get pushed forth it's
fucking crazy because people who don't
know what violence is it's like here's
one that people say they'll say to a
martial arts person like they'll see
someone like John Jones like if I was
John Jones I just fucking kick
everybody's ass like no you wouldn't
no you wouldn't okay no and all the
problems that John Jones has been in one
thing she notices never been in a fight
there's no street fights out there with
John Jones you know I mean I would bet
he is least the least likely person to
engage in that activity
I bet you're right yeah doesn't want to
do because he knows exactly the
consequences let alone the legal
consequences of doing it outside of a
cage exactly but when you look at it
from someone who has zero understanding
they're like oh if I was that guy I'd be
kicking everybody's ass but no you
wouldn't because like violence people
don't just accept violence you don't
just hit someone to get away with it
they think about that shit forever and
they try to get you back and you they
hire someone to get you back or they get
you back on their own or they wait for
you to not remember it and then they
come around the corner and fucking brain
you with a baseball bat
this is what people do people don't like
getting fucked up if you kick someone's
ass they're gonna remember it they're
gonna and this idea that you're gonna be
able to suppress people by by attacking
them and hitting them with bike locks
and you know and not letting them speak
at universities that you know you're
protesting at it's it's madness and it's
it's it's so confusing because it's not
indicative of what I always thought of
when I thought about left-wing people I
thought there were peace-loving people
or well-educated and instead you're
getting these people that from their
fucking computer they're calling for
violence like you don't know what
violence is well the thing is - from
what I've seen it didn't start with the
bike locks right it started with you
know shout this person down yeah and
then it's like fistfights and then
they're throwing rocks and then it's
bike locks and now I hear people you
know get your guns and and it starts to
rise to that level I'm like okay yeah
you people need to calm down because the
theory of we need a revolution in this
country like
let's pump the brakes homeboy yeah but
first of all here's what we need we need
camaraderie we need to nice this is more
important than anything we need to be
calm with each other you know this this
idea that yelling people down stops
anything you're just gonna make people
yell louder on the other side that that
shit does not work that's not how human
beings operate when if you want human
beings to appreciate your perspective
find the things you agree on and and
work towards like a better humanity work
towards a better more loving way of
interacting with each other this is
possible while disagreeing and this is
one of the most important things I think
that we could ever Express in terms of
how to communicate with each other you
don't have to shout people down like the
the best way to do it is to try to
figure out the points that you can agree
on
find out what you disagree on and find
out why you disagree all right and
you're always going to get bad actors
right you're always going to get people
that are in there that they don't care
they're not reasonable they just want to
win and well there's a giant problem
with that kind of communicating because
it's so absolute it's my way or the
highway like that's that's where
violence comes from that's where that's
where real yeah that's where real
physical conflicts that's where they
come from when there's no way to
negotiate there's no way to communicate
outside of that I just think it's I
don't know bizarre is not the right word
I think it's sad that the vast majority
from again my opinion what I see is
people who are identifying with shit you
can see on a street sign yeah like left
or right like you're telling me that as
a species that's is nuances we can get
you want to completely define yourself
and your ideology and your beliefs by
something literally you can see just
driving your car turn left turn right
it's just I don't understand it I don't
it's the exact opposite world it to go
back to you know getting out of the
military and just kind of entering into
the world like what's going on yeah it
makes no sense to me it makes me
extremely uncomfortable I hate hearing
people calling for violence I know and
especially calling for violence when
it's not necessary against the Americans
when you what you had to deal with in
the military has to be the most intense
form of of conflict that's available on
planet Earth
the most intense form of conflict is war
that's the real conflict that's real
consequences you've suffered them
physically you've seen countless friends
suffer them physically that's the real
shit so when you're seeing people from
universities from these coddled
environments and these these these
people with it really an completely
ignorant perspective as the as to what
the actual consequences of violence are
calling for it it's just bananas on one
hand I'm glad that they haven't
experienced it because I can tell that
they haven't just by the way that
they're acting and I'm glad that they
didn't have to do that but on the other
one it's a tough pill to swallow because
it I just don't understand get for sure
like I said it resets your it resets
your perspective and the last thing that
I would ever want to see is that here on
the streets of the u.s. like I just I
can't even imagine how destructive well
it would just it would destroy our
country for sure but I also don't I
can't figure out and the route out of
where we are so people are calling for
violence right and got other countries
trying to incite it get groups together
what's the navigatable route out of that
mushrooms okay I had one sitter that
wraps the only way I don't honestly
don't know I'm hoping that things don't
have to come to a head I'm hoping that
we don't have a Kent State or some some
horrible event in this country where you
know protesters and and the people that
oppose them get into some horrible
deadly violent encounter because so far
other than Charlottesville that time
that guy ran over that woman did a car
we're seeing most of this violence being
at least somewhat contained to
fisticuffs right and you know the
professor to hit that guy with a bike
lock and there's a few other instances
that people get knocked out and punched
and hit with sticks we haven't seen mass
shootings and murder but god damn it
that shit's close it's especially when
rallies and people are like you know
yeah let's do an open carry rally and
everybody show in there operator chic
apparel
with I look at the pictures of that I'm
like okay you have a lot of stuff first
off that's on fucking backwards you know
like I'm looking like okay you have all
the tools but you obviously don't
practice with them you know but the
danger of just you know what's the next
step first we're just gonna you know
we're gonna wear all of our stuff
alright well if it started at fist and
then went by clocks and then went show
up with your Civil War gear right what's
the next step after that shooting yeah
you know I mean I don't know I don't
want to get involved in that I mean I
well you picked a good spot where you're
at in Montana where I live does not suck
yeah hang out there and you know move in
once the first few rounds have been
fired the dust starts to settle I just
promised I would want to come off the
bed of course but the problem is is if
that happens and I'm not I guarantee you
I'm not the only one that feels like
that I'm gonna get involved and it's
gonna be a serious problem for those
individuals because I'd give my military
career see across-the-board average
there's absolutely nothing spectacular
about my career I'd done more than some
weigh less than others but I've
sacrificed enough that I am NOT gonna
allow those people to tear us apart but
it's the last thing on earth that I want
to do but they put me in that position I
know that myself and many other people
are in that same boat are gonna get
involved and that's I don't know if
that's gonna help the problem but it's
gonna get ugly pretty fast I just don't
remember a time where the country's been
so divided in terms I mean I don't know
whether it's because of social media and
because of the Russian influence on
social media compounded with having
Trump as a president compounded with I
mean people that feel like they're
disenfranchised and they don't feel like
they're like you know you hear about
this all the time in regards to income
inequality people feel disenfranchised
they feel like the system has failed
them and that's why so many young kids
are favoring socialism and why so many
young kids are moving towards that they
think that anything's got to be better
than watching these fat rich cats with
all this money controlling the world and
that the only way to get out of that is
revolution but damn you're you know like
there's a lot of people that are not
those fat rich cats you're positioning
yourself against it or just nor
regular Americans who happen to be
conservative you know and conservative
does not always have to equal racist it
doesn't always have to equal white
supremacy it doesn't always have to
equal all the negative connotations you
know religious fanaticism and all these
different things that people always
attach towards conservatism it doesn't
have to mean that it could it could just
mean people who are prudent with their
finances who are you know they're
they're cautious with the way they think
they're more conservative and their
values and their ideals this is there's
no that's not a bad thing necessarily
but we've got it lumped into these two
groups left versus right and there's a
very little gray area it's the tyranny
of or yeah yeah it's like it's as if
there's only two choices yeah either
left or right
yeah like where's the and where is you
trend to the left and you also have some
values that are associated with the
right yeah are you trend it's uh I think
we need to evolve you know I think we
need to evolve the way we communicate
with each other first off you know I
think there's so much of so much yelling
on social media that people engage in a
daily basis I mean I jump into these
little social media spats and watch
these people going back and forth with
each other I'm like how do you live your
life that has got to be so stressful you
gotta be fucking freaking out every time
you check your phone you know who's
calling you a cock and who's you know
who's giving out your home address and
who's you know what kind of crazy shit
are people doing it's so nuts right now
I'm glad I'm late to the game on that
stuff like so late if I enjoyed so I
have two teenage boys and a 10 year old
girl and we've had some social media
issues with them if I grew up with the
tools that they have mm I would not be
sitting here with you today if I had had
when I was 15 the ability to broadcast
my idiotic thoughts to the world I would
be it like I can't it would I tell my
kids to Mike you guys are growing up in
a time in my opinion is is so much more
difficult than the time I grew up it
agreed if I had a problem with you be
like Joe I would talk shit to your face
yeah or I had to find out what your
phone number is or mail you a letter
your letter and then by the time it
showed up I wouldn't be pissed at you so
would defeat the purpose I mean I've
seen it firsthand
you know responding the stuff people
they're just watching and then they dive
in and you know and like screen grabs
yup next thing you know I'm at school
it's like help hello mr. stone how are
you would like to show you this I'm like
oh my god oh my god but I get it at the
same time right and I recognise the
language that they're using I'm like oh
yeah that was me but I was just talking
to you right all right I don't know how
to it's very difficult for me you got to
come in okay I think your daughter's are
younger than yeah my sons it's rough
yeah it is rough and it's something that
no one has done before here's the thing
like if you're in your 40s or in your
50s or whatever and you have a kid today
you haven't done that you didn't grow up
with the internet the internet didn't
even exist until I was a grown man you
know I mean I didn't get online until I
was in my late 20s that's when it that's
when it existed and these kids that are
10 and 11 they have phones already and
they have snapchat accounts and they're
you know and then there's you know one
of the craziest ones is kids taking
naked pictures of each other because
this girl got arrested for child
pornography yeah because she was taking
pictures of her hoo-ha and sending it to
boys and she was 15 and so they were
they were arresting her for distribution
of child pornography and I'm like hey
hey hey stop with the fucking word of
the law you assholes do you really think
this girl's a child pornographer she's
no she's a slut
this is we grew up with kids like this
sorry I don't mean to slut-shame but I
mean for lack of a better term yeah you
know for comedic intent I had to use
that word she's just a young girl's
probably misguided but the point is we
all knew girls like that and for
whatever reason had this desperate need
for male attention they just didn't have
a platform yeah they would just flash
you their tits in the hallway or
something like that I mean there was
always girls that would never had that
happen he never had that happen oh I
knew girls that would do that it was
always like your East Coast guy though I
was a West Coast guy they're different
over there I would have to assume so
given we don't have the same shared
experience I think they're more savage
on the
coasts because they're the the children
of immigrants you know or the
grandchildren of immigrants and this is
my theory on this is a my take on
America in terms of immigration right
it's like the people that moved here
from somewhere else they moved here from
Europe been there there were wild
fuckers who's like you know what I don't
have a picture of this place
there's no YouTube video for me to watch
but I'm gonna take a chance and I'm
gonna get in a fucking boat with my
family I'm going to travel across a
goddamn ocean for weeks yeah and then
I'm gonna get to the other side and
there are all these weird communities of
people like you know my grandfather
would always talk about how racist
people were against Italians and then
there was a lot of that against Irish
and all these like immigrant communities
on the East Coast and then what happens
is they would get in their car and they
would go fuck this place let's go west
and they would keep going until they got
to California and I think that's why
California is like one of the most
progressive places because the furthest
away from where people landed so the
people that wanted to get the fuck away
from them they got as far away as they
could and the even smarter ones came to
Montana and then there's some people in
the middle that went why are we why are
we traveling let's just stop right here
especially like you go to places like I
mean there's a lot of places that are
fucking amazing that are like in the
middle flyover States you know you'd
call it flyover States but I mean
there's a lot of great spots in Texas
yeah you know you go to Austin you go
okay why are we moving yeah why don't we
just stay right here like this is
fucking great like do we really need to
go to Santa Monica
no you can stay right here San Antonio
is pretty cool too I was down there with
deadly twice in the last month and it
like pretty cool town I've never been
it's it's why I shouldn't say town I
think it's an eighth largest city in the
United States but is it really San
Antonio are you sure yeah
Wow that's crazy I did not know that we
think about it James dammit I was told
it was the eighth largest by San Antonio
president and mayor no actually evident
from black rifle go ahead of tourism for
San Antonio I think San Antonio is like
the fourth in Texas so it's like Dallas
is number one Houston Austin San Antonio
so four
in Texas that doesn't really make sense
it would be a thin the country I think
it might be with like actual size like
oh like way miles or some okay it's
exactly right man oh so Alaska is the
biggest state in the country in terms of
distance and that you could travel have
you been there much Alaska we go there
or the last time I was there I had some
interesting experiences actually the
last time I was there that's where we do
our cold weather training so that was
there it was for work which I had fun
but it was also not enjoyable at the
same time those are real savages those
people live around wild animals yes
there's only like a hundred of them you
know we would get a legit Kodiak Island
gym number seven as far as population is
it really yeah damn yes 1 million four
hundred and sixty nine thousand so it's
actually bigger than you thought wow
it's bigger than Phoenix that's bigger
than San Diego just under Phoenix Oh
Phoenix is six I see that's crazy it's
just just under fucking huh it's just
past Philly Philly's number five after
Houston that's nuts man
there's not more than 1.5 million people
in failure though that doesn't seem
right that doesn't seem right this
number for San Diego seemed very low as
well I thought it was didn't look to
threes I don't know what they're
counting actually this I just googled it
assholes at the top largest city for
assholes work is only 8 million what Los
Angeles ok shit fuck in the mouth Los
Angeles 3 million nine hundred thousand
Los Angeles has 20 million people and
who knows how many Mexican folks they
don't have any idea how many people have
snuck across the border they literally
have no idea yeah it's just pure
guesswork like but what who's doing
these censuses and who were they talking
to like what would they have traffic
cameras that are judging based on the
amount of cars or to driving past them
every day they don't really know I think
it's a guess it's a fucking guess they
probably have one place where they have
a video camera up where they can capture
a certain amount yeah
multiply it by a magnitude and then
extrapolate that over like I don't know
actually it's probably scientist they're
probably pretty good at guessing we're
probably retarded I don't know um that
should use that word that's
our take on it though is is really
essentially based on you know like like
who's how many people are registered in
this area how many people we absolutely
know and then how many people have
pushed into this area from other places
account size it's the number 38 TV
market somehow so it is what Antonio oh
so I don't know how it fits in that
number that way it's it's very strange
how their accounts don't have TVs
they've moved past TVs maybe they're
just books was maybe this number one for
book reading I'm gonna go out on a limb
and say that's not well it's you know I
don't know man it's it's it's an
interesting thing like population
because when you fly over the country
you look down you go wow look at all
that spot that people could live in like
are we really overpopulated you know but
then in certain areas and others not so
much
well in others you just fly over there's
nothing there forever like I drove from
Vegas to LA and there's some spots we
drive from Vegas to LA where as you're
driving you go okay what the fuck is
here
like what who are these people that live
in these weird little know out of towns
that are off of the 15 not even the
towns man so I used to fly a bunch from
San Diego out to press kid and then kind
of do that loop Havasu in like the Vegas
area miles from anything double-wide
trailer yeah just just dirt roads single
but then at the same time you could
because you're you know you're higher up
you can see the geometric patterns like
it's just chunks of squares and there's
two double wides five miles away like I
don't know San people yeah I saw one
where this guy had this setup and they
had a fence around his house and then he
had a fucking antenna like one of them
big-ass ham radio antennas yeah he's
just talking to aliens or fellow alien
researchers who are out there looking
for yeah I have I'd rather go into
houses overseas that make entry into
that man's house yeah probably less
pathogens bless what's yeah less likely
to get beamed up to the Starship
Enterprise yeah - right that - I just
wonder like how a person winds up in
that double-wide trailer miles away from
Barstow like how do you like what path
you get from being a baby coming out of
my mama's vagina till one day being
holed up sniffing bath salts you know
smelling your own farts thinking nailed
it yeah counting how many bullets you
have in case the aliens come to get you
fortunately I find a lot of those people
either have a lot of guns or a lot of
bullets but not both at the same time
you'd be surprised how many it's like
wow you have a lot of guns where's your
ammo I got a box of it over there I'm
like okay and someone should do like a
trailer park tour of this country just
like as for a documentary just what
happened how'd you get here like what is
it it was your family from here like
this is not a good community we got to
get you out of here yeah what's your
escape plan
what do you escape place you're 200
miles away from the nearest city you're
surrounded by desert and you have a
trailer out here like what's going on
man
think about where do you go for
groceries and how often you eat rabbits
that you find your backyard sometimes
probably Mike dude if you went to the
grocery store II came back damn it I
forgot the milk mm-hmm you know yeah
find a javelina and suck his dick that
is not a picture production have you
been to Alaska much I've only been a few
times where I go went Anchorage we me
and Ari Shaffir did some salmon fishing
had a great time doing that and then we
did two shows up there and then I've
been hunting on Prince of Wales we did
some Sitka Sitka deer hunting bobtail
barklow from Sitka Ram not when I went
through but he ran the cold weather
facility on Kodiak Island okay like 15
years Cody I can go fuck itself with
those goddamn gigantic huge humongous
bears oh that's why I'm saying we had
some interesting experiences that's
where we did our cold weather training
did you run into bears there are always
bears around but also having a machine
gun helps with that so that does make
you feel better make sure
feel better but not when you're sleeping
at night we camped we would do snowshoe
like just deep into the back of Soviet
we would go and do you had to do your
cold weather training so getting your
dry suits on and swimming through the
surf at nighttime Oh wonderful
which is an ice cream headache over and
over and over again as the ocean breaks
over your head it's pretty bad and that
cold weather emergent test is there we
have to get into the water but just a
pair of shorts on for five minutes and
just then rewarm yourself so they get
you to a point of hypothermia right to
the edge it's I think as many things are
in my old job there is a aspect of
learning and there is an aspect of tough
it out and you combine the two so it it
sucked and there was there was a reason
that they wanted it to suck but they're
also trying to teach a lesson right but
God forbid they just teach the lesson so
they make you suffer to ingrain it
probably yeah so one day you wake up and
on the board like a little white board
that has the list of gear you need it
just says shorts running shoes I'm like
okay this is February in Kodiak what are
you talking about
they said shorts running shoes get out
in the Ford Econoline van so we all get
out there and they drive to the beach
where sea water is freezing at the edge
and they say okay go out you have to
completely submerge yourself neck deep
water five minutes and then timer starts
timer starts when the last person
submerges their head
oh god so you might be first you might
be a be all fired up and it you're just
gonna get seven and a half minutes is
what you're gonna get so you go and you
sit there and it's the coal it hurts for
a minute and then you're numb the worst
thing about it actually is rewarming it
feels like you're just getting pinprick
Tovar and over it over again yes oh that
is barklow look at him standing up there
on that rock well barklow has a great
rewarming drill that we actually played
on the podcast before for Sitka where he
takes their gear and jumps into a lake
so that is the telling ya and then
rewarm himself with basically all
Sitka's gear and figures out how to get
your body back to what I thought was
interesting that I never really
considered there's that eating food
actually ramps up your body heat because
you have to burn off the calories yep
your body starts processing the food
actually
good for elevating body temperature
eating food especially if you can get
hot food of course yep but just eating
so the drill the drill he was doing
actually had much more I would say
educational benefit because they would
make them they would take them there
with all of their gear their gear list
would say whatever they were wearing
plus bring your tent your sleeping bag
and all your stuff because we're gonna
put you into the water and then you need
to survive your way out of it so they
would they would have to erect a tent
they would have to get their sleeping
bag out all after being in the water for
five minutes which is exactly what a
survival situation is gonna look like
for us we went in there got back into
the van and I sat in a hot tub and drank
beer for the rest of the day so I got
the understanding of what it feels like
to be hypothermic and that just see they
have to push their head under water whoo
right there is either screwing everybody
or was the first person to complete it
now wim HOF does so much of this cold
water submersion stuff and he actually
enjoys it and loves it yeah you know do
you think that there's a way that you
could use like his methods and get
through that with less pain potentially
even though you know all of the skills
that I used in Kodiak I I did not ever
use a single one of them operationally I
used his breathing method in the
cryotank that makes Sarah pee that makes
sense but that are those arctic
conditions I don't know at least in the
modern theatres of war were engaged I
don't know where the applicability would
be mmm so it might be a little bit of a
benefit versus time expended to teach
the guys that stuff hmm you know because
unless it's we're talking like Korea
probably farther in the northern you
know latitudes I mean it's uh like the
training was amazing like I said I
didn't use a single bit of it hmm right
but it's something well it's also
building mental toughness and
determination and that's why I said
there's an aspect of learning and
there's an aspect of just this is gonna
suck right hey you guys guess what
you're gonna do a 20 kilometer hike into
the backcountry and snowshoes there is
no end state to this there's no target
you're going to do anything on you're
just gonna go out there and you're gonna
do it you're gonna survive out there and
it's gonna suck for three days and then
you're gonna come back you just embrace
this up or you learn how to pack your
backpack better you know or you learn
how to move better over that terrain or
you learn how to navigate
that environment so there's always an
essence of it but it just happens to be
that there's usually a pain component
with it as well you know a lot of
military training is like that there's
an essence of pain compliance and then
the actual learning technique as well
yeah it's the learning technique I mean
it is really you're you're learning a
technique to manage your mind under
sucky conditions I'm graduated that is a
technique as well right so I was
actually having a conversation with
somebody about this recently I'm of the
opinion that really the only thing that
I learned how to do when I was a seal
was to enhance my ability to learn other
things mmm it's your selecting for
people and and to get to that point you
got to maintain control your emotions
whether you're in pain or you're hot or
you're cold so there's that that essence
of self-control but then they require so
many different skill sets and so many
different things that the selection
process is looking for and then at the
end of it teaching people how to become
better learners and then you just refine
that over and over and over again over a
career mmm it's the ability to learn is
probably the biggest takeaway that I
have from my time and service I think
that's the best thing you could ever
really learn is learning how to learn
yeah learning how to learn correctly
learning how to actually pay attention
to what someone's teaching you and
absorb it and follow the steps rather
than fuck it up with your own ego and
your own insecurities or whatever it is
it's going to trip you up if you can get
good at something you know you can you
can apply that to almost anything if you
really focus yeah and and then they
would pair it with will surround you by
okay we want to make you better at
shooting so we are gonna go find world
champion pistol carving shooters mm-hmm
go apply your ability to learn with them
and then do it for weeks okay now you're
gonna specialize you're gonna be a point
man so you need to be able to navigate
and climb so we're gonna send you out to
Joshua Tree for two weeks with
world-class climbers go apply your
ability to learn with them and then
jumping and then diving and then tactics
and then fill in the blank over a career
hmm that's another thing that freaks me
out is climbing did you do much climbing
I was a lead climber up until the point
where I don't have use of my ankle
anymore because of the nerve
oh and it's funny is I'm actually I
don't like Heights how did you free solo
at all uh as long as I wasn't more like
than three feet off the ground yes I'm
totally comfortable free soloing and
moving laterally but not vertically away
from the ground because I see oh my god
Honnold I want maybe three times in a
row and here's the thing I know he's
alive I know he was on your podcast I
listened to it and in the final scenes I
realized I was sitting there
white-knuckling my recliner like my
hands were sweating I'm like I know he
lives but it still freaked me the fuck
out Wow
I mean that guy yeah he's something but
you know what's interesting about
climbing is you get the more exposure
you have the less it bothers you like I
solely climbing is interesting
especially if you are placing your
protection as you go if it's drilled and
Bowl saying League or lead Eliade
typically like uh someone's in front of
you your rope as a lead climber you are
probably setting the ropes at least a
mile job you're setting the ropes for
the people who are gonna follow okay
most the time when you see people what
not most the time but one of the
disciplines would be there's bolted
routes that go up a rock so you can just
bring you know carabiners and put the
carabiner through that and you loop the
Rope through it and you're good to go
another aspect would be is you don't use
the bolted end stuff and you basically
carry on your climbing harness a rack of
gear so as you're holding on to the
rocks you're trying to wedge a block or
a stopper in or a cam system that it
rotates to be smaller than as you
release it opens up and if you pull
against it it locks itself into the rock
right so you're setting your own
protection and you trust those things so
that was the point that I was getting to
sometimes you get to a place you know
like this is the perfect piece of gear
and of course you're all like six feet
off the ground when the perfect piece of
gear and then you'll get multi pitches
up in the air should be two three
hundred feet up in the air and you're a
lead climber so there's nobody above you
and you're setting your own pro and
you're starting to get emotionally
involved in the situation that you're in
and you set a piece of pro and it's it's
rattling around a little bit so I don't
know we're we don't know how good that
one's gonna be but we're gonna keep
climbing and then the next piece of pro
you said not the most awesome piece
because you're worried about the one
beneath you
you don't want to fall so you get it in
there and then you just keep climbing so
sometimes it's awesome and sometimes
it's terrifying and then you got to
think that if you do fall all that force
if one pops and then the second one pops
you've got a lot of distance well you
get I think it's double the distance if
you're ten feet above the last piece of
protection you put in you follow the ten
feet to the protection then the ten feet
past the protection clink-clink-clink
and then it pulls on the pond the pro so
it's actually double the height that you
are above it it's not I've been probably
more scared out of my mind actually the
scaredy's scares I've ever been is a you
were lived in Boulder right yeah there's
a climb there called the bastille crack
it's in one of the national parks and I
was there with a buddy it was just me
and him in a world-class climber and I
was at the East Coast command at the
time so budget was no option I had the
newest shiniest stuff I'm like taking
plastic off of climbing gear to go climb
this rock this guy pulls up in a van
with a Marlboro hanging out and you know
tennis shoes that have laces probably on
one of them one of the one of the shoes
in a and an old pair of pants and he's
climbed like every mountain ever so it's
me and my buddy we're climbing our way
up I'm leading this pitch so you switch
one guy will climb he sets an anchor the
other person comes up and they pick all
the protection out so you can just
switch and then the other person leads
the way on the next one so I'm like
halfway up this pitch and I can't move
because I'm losing my shit I'm like 15
feet above the last piece of protection
that I just put in I'm convinced that I
feel my feet slipping off of the rock
I'm holding I had my hand jammed into
the rock and then you make a fist to
like you know prevent it from falling
out you can actually see alex is doing
that in free solo as he's climbing up
they'll slide their hand in and then
they'll manipulate the shape so it pulls
and as I my world is collapsing on me
and I'm just sitting there I've got full
sewing machine leg just sitting there
just shaking I hear voice just over my
shoulders I came in just put the piece
of pro right there and I look over and
this professional climber is right next
to me with no rope
in his fucking tennis shoes smoking a
cigarette which is what he was using to
point to where I should have placed the
next piece of protection cool calm and
collected and I almost fell off the rock
cuz he scared me so bad I was so freaked
out of what he was doing that I almost
fell I'm like you need to get away from
me immediately he's like yeah no prob
and just scurried up the rock and tennis
shoes - shoes tennis shoes but you're
not supposed to use tennis shoes I don't
think it mattered I think the guy like
he was a partial complete monkey he just
when you're around world-class climbers
yeah I mean they can hang on an edge
that is like a couple pieces of paper
mm-hmm and this in the Bastille crack is
not a difficult route so I'm sure there
was one right next to it and he just as
I'm freaking out he's just sitting there
just hey hey buddy and I didn't know he
was there I literally almost fell off
because he talked to me
get away from me different kind of you
but I guess it's one of those things
where it's like you spelled you're
better at it you just yeah after a week
of climbing you will not feel bad about
walking up to the edge and just standing
there Alex Honnold was telling us a
story about one time who's free soloing
and he was halfway up and he well he was
in the middle of this journey up this
fucking Mountain he realized he didn't
bring any powder so didn't have any
chalk with him cool so his hands are
sweating and he's just climbing within
it with no powder so he met a guy
halfway up these guys that were using
ropes and you know they were doing it
the right way and he's doing it with no
ropes and he goes hey man can I borrow
your chalk and the guy gives him a chalk
bag and he goes I'll leave it for you at
the top of the mountain so he takes the
chalk bag past these guys see it just
keeps going and then leaves the bag for
the guy at the top of the hill I'm like
what in the fuck man how could you start
something like that like and apparently
said that once you start climbing you
are committed to climbing in order to
climb down and up yeah fuck that there's
not enough money in the world that would
make me attempt the stuff that he does
and if I was a climber that had Olaf I
was like you know feeling like I'm
kicking ass on my hand fill my head
sweaty feel my head just talking about
it I sweat like a pig
I'm telling I was watching it white
knuckling and if I was a climber
and he passed me was like hey do you
mind if I borrow your chuck chalk I
would finish that climb and never climb
again yeah because I would realize that
I am a complete and utter bitch in
comparison to what he is like if that's
what's possible
yeah and I'm sitting here like strug I'm
like I'm out you're also built wrong for
it you know you I think the thin wiry
guys it's the way to go he also has like
these gorilla mask fingers man his
fingers just used to yeah just grabbing
but he also said that he had gone
through a series of injuries for the
first time in his life like recently
over the last few years yeah that was in
the the movie yeah yeah like a
compression of his discs and then a
really bad strain on his ankle and he
was gonna take six months off and so he
just started climbing in a cast
sure so it's a different kind of human I
mean he also lives out of a van I mean
he's world famous guy who's living in a
van traveling around just fucking
climbing rocks did you have him on after
he had completed that climb like they
were yeah okay so he had been successful
they were just probably editing the
project I had him on earlier like years
ago yeah and then I had him on again
recently okay yeah it's uh the guy I
would want to talk to is Jimmy chin the
photographer who is capturing all that
oh he's up there with him right that's
the thing I when he talks about it a
little bit more so in the promos for the
film but the how sketched out he was to
actually be involved and sit there in
film and how much of a burden he felt to
like stay out of the periphery and not
engage get engaged in the head space and
make Alex do something different because
the cameras were there that would of
course cost him his life right I can't
imagine the pressure of doing that or
just I wouldn't do it like if a buddy of
mine was like hey will you come fill me
you know freeze I would say no because I
would be so afraid of just watching them
peel off Oh imagine if you were up there
filming and you watch they're going to
fall that would be rough and they're of
course good friends mm-hmm and you know
this guy yes a savage well he's got his
hands
on the camera only well he's got he's
got a bunch of stuff so he see his foot
his left foot is in he's kind of sick
yeah he's kind of secured down there
he's got that carabiner he's got one
going to his harness he's actually got
two ropes going to his harness so he's
kind of angled in there's like a
triangle but he's a world-class climber
in and of himself he also has a giant
ass camera bag look at that big-ass bag
hanging from his hip look at that
position he's in - oh fuck all this
Jimmy so that's how they get it that's
how they get into position for a lot of
it he's jus marring instead of climbing
the rock he's got basically ascenders
that will I to push it up and then they
lock on the rope hmm so he's got one leg
in there and one arm and he's kind of
jumar we used those a lot of the times
as well but he's a world-class climber
in and of himself I kind of think you'd
have to be right in order to be able to
capture that yeah yeah the team that I
think they put together was like 5 to 7
world-class guys but there's a movie of
him called yeah no thanks what is that
what is that guy doing he's hanging
probably 3,000 foot over nothing
focusing on capturing the shot mmm I
would be focusing on the urine streaming
down my leg yeah soaking your socks oh
like I couldn't do that but I could go
to the edge of that cliff and zip up my
suit absolutely no problem and send that
off there and I bet you he would want no
piece of that it's so bizarre yeah if
he's shootin Alex who's shooting him in
the Mikey shooting Jimmy in the
Freestyle movie I think they had a team
of like 5 to 7 people they had so they
had long lens they had people up there
they had remote cameras I mean it's a
whole they obviously had drones flying
around yeah well there was a film that
you know that besides this film the
recent documentary which is a thing is
called solo Priscilla Priscilla yeah
before that there was also a late night
one of those new shows like ABC World
News Tonight or something like that they
did a whole piece on him and they had
this one guy who was a you know
world-class climber and said it's not a
matter of if it's a matter of when he
falls every innovator in the wingsuit
world yeah is dead yeah it's
I mean but at the same I mean I say that
I would totally agree with that but I
also understand why he's doing it I mean
the end state for all of us is
predetermined and I would suspect having
never talked to the guy that he would
rather meet his end like that than at 80
years old as a geriatric yeah I would
imagine yeah
but that doesn't ease the burden on the
people around him and that's that that's
the piece that was the toughest for me
when it came to the wingsuit BASE
jumping him there it's insane what's
wrong with that man but meanwhile he's
such a nice guy when you talk to Alex in
real life he's a sweetheart
you just you you root for him to quit
look man you already did it stop I have
yet to hear him expressed desire to do
so though he's not quitting you know I
mean different that's the thing you know
yeah we're all know me physically I mean
the way your brain ticks everyone just
has a different thing going on you know
I mean what leads you to what you do
like what what is it about you
sometimes you look at your path in life
you look to where you are right now and
you know what the fuck led me to be in
this spot where I'm 2,000 feet above the
ground with my foot jammed into this
wedge yep looking up and there's another
four thousand feet to go and I got a
chalk bag I got a chalk bag you got a
chalk bag and the Sun Goes Down in four
hours good luck
no thank you not enough money in actual
world yeah my hands sweat talking yeah
and like I said I knew he was alive yeah
I knew the result and it still freaked
me out I think that it's one of the more
interesting things about all paths in
life it's like what it is what is it
that leads someone to decide to be a
surgeon what leads someone to decide to
be you know fill in the blank whatever
whatever the fuck you want to do what
leads someone decided to want to climb
mountains this there's the way human
beings vary and the way human beings
find comfort in whatever path they
choose whether it's you to being doing
wingsuit jumping or like some people the
public speaking is so terrifying for
them that the idea of doing stand-up is
just horrific like I've had friends that
come to see me the Comedy Store
and I'll be talking to them right before
I go onstage and they're like do you
have to prepare I'm like I'm all right
don't worry I've been doing this I can
do it I do it all the time so I do it
because I've done it so often I could
just go and do it
whereas if they had to do it for the
firt mean there's a thing a look on a
person's face when you see them go
onstage and that you know they've never
done before like if you go to open mic
night you can see it
the sheer panic and terror in their face
but you're like meanwhile there's no
consequences what is gonna happen people
not gonna like you yeah we're not even
gonna remember you Moo
yeah you get off that stage you're fine
he might fall to his death from a
fucking giant mountain that he didn't
have to climb yeah like that's real
consequences but for him I mean for some
people the other like the public
speaking thing would be more terrifying
than that I was gonna say put him in
that environment like Alex you're not
gonna climb today you're gonna do a
five-minute set at the Comedy Store
I think Alex would be fun doing it
because he's actually I think he's doing
a podcast now didn't he say he's doing a
podcast I'm pretty sure he said he's
doing a pottage you tell them he should
start one probably because I think
you've spawned thousands of podcasts
well I spawned a budget yeah I say that
it like is amazing to me the influence
that you have it is unbelievable the
number of people like I started this
because I heard Joe talk I'm like okay
cool it's uncomfortable like I don't
think about it because if I did think
about it it freaked me out
I mean there's I've said so much stupid
shit the fact that anybody would listen
to me with anything there's thousands of
hours of me talking out of my ass why
did you decide to start one in the first
place just for fun just for fun and just
to fuck around I was you know I was a
little disenchanted had to come back to
LA from Colorado and I didn't want to
but it was just one of those things and
when when I was starting it it was
really just a goof I'd always wanted to
do something like that because my friend
Anthony cou Mia he did he was from Opie
and Anthony he had a set up in his
basement and he would do this thing he
would call it live from the compound
from his house he had a green screen and
he had a he built the set in the
basement I was like wow if he could do
that I didn't have the money to do
anything like that at the time but I was
like but if he could do
like maybe I could figure out how to do
something like that so I just started
off slow with webcams and shit like that
and stumbled my way through it I
personally believe that Jerry number one
should be put into a digital time
capsule and save forever it's one of my
favorite things on e to terrible
what's amazing how normal people like me
hope feeling yes yeah well you do you'll
get better at everything yeah you know
you really do and I've gotten I mean
just in the last few years I've gotten
so much better at listening to people
and understanding what they're in and
trying to see things from their
perspective and trying to ask questions
that get them to expand on their ideas
better you know it's given me an insane
education in as far as in a bunch of
ways not just in terms of gathering
information but also in terms of how
people react to that information and you
know human psychology and how human
beings react to controversial subjects
or you know how they forgive people for
mistakes to that's that's an interesting
one for me there's some people that have
such an an unwillingness to forgive
people and they have no no empathy or
compassion those people are confusing to
me because I'm like look I know you
fucked up I know somewhere and maybe
that's not sure maybe it's not digitally
recorded like other people's fuck-ups so
you think you're safe so you're being a
hypocrite you're all like there's it's
when when someone gets busted you know
it's it's really interesting and when
someone like like there's there's just
so much opportunity and one of the
things that I was talking about with
Jack Dorsey from I was gonna bring that
up at Twitter one things I was talking
with him about was how everything like
literally from here forth will exist
forever and you know we're gonna have to
figure out a way to recognize that
someone from you know ten years ago when
you were a 15 year old kid you made
something made some crazy fucking tweet
you're not that same person now and you
can't just bring like that did not
happen with people with athletes
recently they were giving him shit for
stuff that they wrote and they're
teenagers but it was something there was
some big case right wasn't there
something recently where a Heisman
Trophy winner
they were giving him a hard time for
some of his past tweets said it comes up
yeah once every other two weeks you know
and they want to make it like the guy
just said it yesterday yeah but I've
already talked about there's no path to
redemption of those people that's a real
problem and I think there should be a
path to redemption for virtually
everyone who's not murdering or raping
people you're not stealing you know
people make mistakes we are all human
we're all super flawed and to deny that
seems like a real it's gonna be a real
problem in terms of progress in the
future and I think that's one of things
that we were talking about earlier in
terms of you know people disagreeing
with on the left or the right and that
this we've got to figure out a way to to
communicate with each other more civilly
and to like approach people like instead
of approaching approaching someone's
actions and who they are like they're
the enemy instead of that look at them
with the most compassionate or forgiving
view possible and look at your the
things that you have in common rather
than the things that are inexorably
separating you I would like to think
that most people actually do that I
think that unfortunately extremism is
winning in the country yeah and the
vocal minority just has a much larger
megaphone or microphone in the non vocal
majority I think most people do that
but I don't think the people that do
that waste their time posting about it
or taking up the you know just filling
the narrative so it looks like there's
only two position that's a good point I
would love to see some return to
moderation or just get extremism in any
shape I feel very uncomfortable people
who go to any length like that well I
think people are getting more and more
upset at it and I think as people
recognize it's more and more
preposterous they're getting more and
more there's more and more pushback and
resistance you know what's really
interesting with progressivism
is that people are getting in trouble
now for things that seem like there's
there's something like Martina
Navratilova just got a bunch of shit
from people calling her transphobic
because she was saying that she didn't
think that biological male she
be competing with biological females and
that there are people who identify as
transgender who keep their penis and
compete as a man and you know her but
her position was like that or compete as
a woman rather ship her position was
like that listen that's not him that's
not a woman that's a man and they have
an advantage and she was citing all
these instances and so she got all this
shit from people so then she said I'm
gonna step back and I'm gonna research
this so she stepped back and researched
it and then came back and said no I've
looked at all the data's probably came
back harder she did come back harder
yeah and now they're attacking her and
calling her transphobic like ELISA this
is not transphobia this is a real thing
that you're gonna have to address when
you're talking about physical activities
when someone identifies look if you want
to identify as a woman or identify as a
male I think we should all support
people doing whatever they want to do as
long as it's not hurting anybody totally
agree but when you're talking about
competition and you're talking about
someone identify I don't care if you
identify as a giraffe if you compete in
an apple picking competition with a
giraffe you're gonna fucking lose you're
not a giraffe stupid right this is just
I mean that's an extreme version of it
but that's nonsense that doesn't make
any sense if you decide that you're a
woman and you want to enter into a
fucking weightlifting competition and
you weight 220 pounds and you're beating
all the other women by like fucking
insane numbers like there was a few
world champion weightlifting winners
that are women that are actually
biologically male so they're winning
weightlifting competitions just like
what the fuck are you talking about like
this is great this is not a matter of
whether or not someone should identify
with something but it's you're talking
about making it fair for actual
biological women like there's a reason
why women don't compete with men is
because physically they're not as strong
so and obviously there's some exceptions
or some weak men and some strong women
and there's some sort of a spectrum when
you find yourself somewhere on it but if
you're allowing biological males to
compete with biological females and just
say oh he identifies as a woman let him
in yeah we're all being
very progressive and then you look at
the results you go what he just broke
all the world records first time in the
quinces and everyone's like yeah it's
amazing what a wonderful woman girl
power like that's not girl power you're
you're monkeying with biology here this
is this is crazy so what's the route
what's the road out of that like what
does that people getting upset and it's
time time being timed you know of these
instances enough of these things happen
enough discussion where enough of the
actual reality of the facts and the data
or shoves and everyone's face enough
that the new generation comes to some
sort of a rational understanding about
what is and is not fair as opposed to
where people are now or they're just no
matter what they're scared to not push
this progressive agenda and they're
scared of the blowback of Martina
Navratilova
who is an LBGT hero right yes she's a
fuckin hero she was a lesbian woman who
was a world champion tennis player and
now they're the left are attacking her
so they're they're eating their own in a
spectacular fashion where you have these
trans people who don't want to look at
reality and then people that support the
trans people because they don't want to
be considered in any way shape or form
anything other than the most progressive
of progressive and it's nonsense
so I think you're right though and the
generational fix to it I think that's
true of a lot of this stuff like I don't
want to get asked all the time school
shootings right it's like the topic of
the day yeah I don't have a solution for
it but I know it's not going to be
overnight it'll be generational in
nature just like it crept in
generational in nature I think a lot of
these problems people look for a light
switch solution where the solution in
and of itself is the exact opposite of
that yeah I think you're right I don't
see any solution to that either and I
think there's a lot of positions that
people feel like they're supposed to
take and if you're on the left the big
position that you're supposed to take is
gun control get rid of the guns the guns
are the problem look at all these people
shooting people with guns you have guns
guns guns and all the mass shootings
what they have in common guns they all
have guns in common and they want to
take away guns and then there's a people
on the right and lucky I've never done
anything wrong with my gun you're not
taking my fucking gun and then there's
this fuck
n'stuff unstoppable battle between these
two sides and that there's a lot of
factors like what what happens to a
human that leads them to get to this
state of mind where they're able to go
into a school and shoot it up like what
is that what what what could possibly be
going on how do we stop that from ever
taking place the these people have to be
in some sort of insane pain there has to
be something unbelievably wrong with
their life that they're capable of doing
this how do we stop that how do we look
at that it's like if this is our global
community if this is our national
community how do we stop this from
happening in our national community I
don't know what the answer to that is I
think there's an answer to stopping
school shootings and not to oversimplify
anything there's I would say there's a
couple key issues one of them is
location the other one is motivation you
can solve the location issue like if we
as a country were legitimately
interested in stopping school shootings
how many have ever occurred at a school
where the president's children go zero
why because it's defended right they
actually take a proactive approach to it
they're gonna have layers of security
defense-in-depth they're probably gonna
have somebody looking out the front door
or a system looking out the front door
controlled extra points entry and exit
points you can have a metal detector you
can have security staff on-site right so
you can control the location aspect and
you know I I go to every time I'm at my
kids school or unfortunately or
fortunately every building I've ever
been and I'm viewing it from a pseudo
tactical perspective at least so I'll go
walk around my kids school and there's
issues that I see from a perspective of
somebody who would want to exploit that
from aggressors perspective but they
could all be solved but that doesn't
solve the second aspect of that the
motivation because I have absolutely no
answer as to why a seventeen year old
kid would think that a solution of any
kind would be to kill their classmates I
don't understand that at all and
although people it's funny like at every
shooting surprisingly enough there's two
things a gun and a shooter and vast
majority the time I hear
people talking about the gun yeah I
think we got to balance that
conversation and talk about the
motivation yeah 100% and and also psych
medications you know you talk about that
the rise in psycho medications got to be
correlated with the rise of school
shootings I mean the amount of people
that are on psych medication and I
understand that correlation does not
equal causation it's not necessarily
that the medications forcing them to do
this but there's guys I don't know what
study has been done on what is what is
the effect and and is there some sort of
a connection other than the fact that
they're all on medication is there some
sort of a connection between taking
certain types of psych medication with
certain biological makeup that allows
you to have this diffusion of reality
like this this this is some some weird
thing happens to them where they're
capable of horrific things and horrific
actions like how much of that is
monkeying with human neural chemistry I
don't know that's why I think the
location portion it's not that it's an
easy solution but it's it is solvable
but isn't a problem funding like there's
no money for to pay for teachers they
don't have money to like secure schools
it depends on how serious we want to
take it yeah if if we really wanted to
stop it what I'm saying is there are
ways that can't stop it I'm not saying
those ways are easy I'm not saying that
those ways are cheap but there are
concrete things just looking at a
structure from being vulnerable to an
assault there are things that could be
done but that doesn't solve this school
shooting problem right it changes the
address because the individual that
would want to go do that at a school if
you make a target hard that doesn't
remove the motivation so I'm saying
there's location motivation and
obviously a lot of other factors the
location one if you solve that you still
got to talk about the shooter right and
I mean that's where I but my head up
again I don't I would actually like to
see this country have a conversation
instead of entrenched positions either
the left or the right all guns should be
bans come get them with your cold my
cold dead hands
right which I don't again I find myself
in the middle of that I don't agree with
either of those positions because it's
more nuanced than just the gun and the
shooter it's the combination of all this
but I don't even feel like we're having
a conversation in this country I feel
like a lot of people are talking I don't
think anybody is listening and I you
know I go to the schools in the
neighborhood where you know where my
kids go to school I don't see a single
change that they have made yeah I think
you're 100% correct and that there
doesn't seem to be any real there's no
real plans to stop this stuff and I
don't think anybody has a real answer
and that's one of the reasons why it's
so confusing to people because you could
do well on it and roll it over in your
head
all day long and there's nothing that
stands out as obvious like hey there's a
fire
go pour water on it that's obvious
there's no there's no solution and
they're low-hanging fruit the metaphor
for the school shootings would be
there's a gun or water on that right
right but the more nuanced and complex
problem is actually the human being
behind it and I see people they just
well that's too difficult so I'm gonna
throw my hands up and give up you know I
mean but also to I think it's important
to point out that actually it's
thankfully it's incredibly rare that it
actually happens and it's funny because
you look at the stats and you start
digging into where the stats come from
and two groups of people and I'm sure
you see this across a variety of topics
we'll take the same study and derive two
different sets of numbers there's school
shootings and then there's shootings
that happen at schools and you can make
one number look bigger and one number
looks smaller like if you wanted to
include the number of people who commit
suicide in a school parking lot which at
a national level is considered a school
shooting because it occurred at a school
you can inflate and conflate the number
of times in the frequency with which it
happens if you strip that information
out it gives you a much more accurate
perspective of how often it's happening
same thing when you remove suicides from
gun violence Brian and the total number
of deaths so but again that takes a
refined and nuanced person that's
willing to actually look at it as
opposed to just repeating what their
bumper sticker says yeah I saw that when
Ted Nugent debated Piers Morgan on
television was talking to him about gun
violence and the actual numbers and he
was saying well this is these are the
real statistics and this is why the
numbers are so high how many of these
when you're including gun violence how
these people are like criminals are
being shot in the act by police officers
how many of them are people defending
their home from a break-in how many of
them are suicides how many once you get
through that you get to the end of it
then you get to gang violence how many
how many of them are responsible how
many deaths are attributed to gang
violence how many deaths are attributed
to you know I mean there's there's
there's a lot of different factors then
you get to these mass shootings yep so
the the mass shootings it's it it's a
relatively small percentage but that
doesn't give anybody any comfort for
anybody that suffer of course it doesn't
and again it's it doesn't excuse it
it's just thankfully it happens
infrequently I wish the number was zero
we're now at and I think the answer to
getting it to 0 will be generational
because it grew generationally you know
I think it will go away generationally
but how does it go to what what what
fundamental changes have to happen in
the way human beings exist that we
stopped any anything that right now
works all the different I mean it would
be a terrible world that we said hey
we're just gonna have to accept that
people are never going to evolve
socially emotionally whatever it is it's
causing people to lash out the way they
do what I mean what a horrible world it
would be if we say no that people just
gonna be like this forever we're not
just flawed but flawed and ruthless and
cruel and violent and awful and that's
just the way people are forever I mean I
think there's improvements you can make
on both sides right so there's a there's
a gun and there's a shooter there are I
couldn't be a more vehement supporter of
the Second Amendment like I completely
and utterly support it but I'm anti
irresponsibility you know and there's a
lot of things that we could do as a
nation that would improve safety via
responsibility I mean look at this the
the stats on the percentage of American
gun owners that don't own a safe it's
over 50% you know which is speaks to
access and what sucks about any
improvements that we make I
you'll never know about it because
you're never gonna know about the school
shooting that you stopped really you
know what I mean Brian because it
doesn't make the
but that doesn't mean my default
position is we can do better there's
ways that we could I think that the
reasonable gun legislation that already
exists there's ways that we could
improve communication interagency like
the Aurora shooter is a perfect example
it took a pistol and killed five people
the day he got fired and injured five
police officers he shouldn't have had
the gun he was a convicted felon his
felony did not show up when they had the
background check for his job but it did
show up for the background check I
believe for his concealed weapons permit
but oftentimes I see it where there's
this disconnect between agencies not
sharing information very much like the
military civilian military
infrastructure prior to 9/11 agency
didn't want to talk to the FBI and the
NSA because budget and relevancy and
this is mine and that's yours and you
know this is my rights we'll get the
fuck away from you don't want to share
information I think we could do better
on the regulations that are in place I'm
not saying add anymore but maybe let's
figure out a way where we could share
information or at least make sure we're
living up to the letter of the intent
and the letter of the law on that side
of the house and then on the other side
of the house I you had a pin tweet for a
long time and I'm going to totally
murder this when it comes to exactly
what it was but something Long's we're
not we don't have a gun prices we have a
mental health crisis I say we have a
mental health crisis disguises a gun
crisis or a mental health problem
decides a gun problem it just like we
can do better on the firearm side of the
house we can do better on the mental
health side of the house and I just see
people throwing their hands up and
attacking the low-hanging fruit because
I think the mental health side of the
house is a more difficult issue than the
firearm issue I think it's the most
difficult issue you know and I think
everyone that I know including myself
has had bad moments in their life and
has struggled and the the struggle
especially mental health struggle
struggle with depression or being
unhappy or anger or any of the things
that keep you off of a healthy baseline
those those those moments in life are
they vary wildly in how people
experience them what to what level
people experience them what impact they
have on them and whether or not their
can recover from these things and for
some people they feel like there is no
recovery and the only way out is to just
go out with a bang like literally and
then this is a lot of what you're seeing
in these school shootings is
suicide-by-cop
yeah I mean this this is one of the
things that people want that they want
to go out in a blaze of glory and what
what the fuck is going on where we let
people get to that point without
stepping in and and trying to help and
do they have anybody that even notices
do they have anyone around them that
knows that this fucked up and this far
gone you know I mean we all like to
think that that could never happen to us
that we could never get to a point where
we're so despondent and filled with
anger and hate and fear and and
self-loathing that we want to do
something horrific but every person who
does something horrific is a human being
right and the difference between you and
them might be genetic it might be
environmental it might be life
experience but they are a human being
just like you and I and something
horrific Lee went wrong in their life to
the point where they are in this
position where they show up at that
that's cool shooting in Illinois just a
couple days ago some guy got fired yep
went back to work and just shot
everybody up like what the fuck that guy
worked there for 15 years like what is
it that that gets when someone gets to a
point where this is this is what flashes
in their mind is the solution go back
with a gun make everybody pay
I felt it myself that feeling overseas
when I'd lose close friends
the first absolute feeling you have
isn't as a an anger that I don't have
the vocabulary to describe and all you
want to do is burn the world to the
ground but it was fleeting and I didn't
do it and I just don't know how we
provide the barrier for people if they
can and when it comes to mental health I
mean somebody with more horsepower
between the ears than me India's gonna
need to solve that problem cuz I don't
understand it but I do understand that
feeling but what I needed was time and I
don't know how to provide that but you
also had character and discipline and a
lot of things that many people lack in
your ability to mitigate these horrific
feelings and this severe depression and
some people don't have those mental
health tools they don't have those tools
I mean you already a seal right you're
at a guy who's endured more than most
human beings will ever in terms of
physically and emotionally and how to
get through that hump to become one of
the elite operators in this country that
just having that as a baseline like
having that as a you you you have the
tool set to endure more than most some
people are just not capable of handling
any real adversity anything bad that
comes down the pipe for them they just
fall apart and I think for many people
there's a real extreme feeling of a lack
of purpose in life there's an extreme
feeling of a lack of a lack of meaning
that that nothing they do matters that
they don't matter that no one cares
about them whether they're or they're
gone people either mock them or
disregard them all together and they
they want people to know who they are
and that's one of the reasons why they
do these things I can see that for sure
but again if I'm being objectively
honest about myself I did have those
tools and probably the only thing that
prevented me from acting out in that
moment is that I didn't have access to
the individuals that I wanted to act out
against and I I mean it's like I said I
understand it I don't have a solution
for it at all but I understand it yeah
well you would be able to understand it
more than most in coming from that place
of having lost friends and being in that
intense and also being in this
environment where people are shooting
and killing people on a regular basis
and you're directly a part of that and
directly connect it to it it makes
violence so much more tangible well I
mean at the same time I don't want to
pay in a horrible picture there is a ton
of misconceptions about what I used to
do right yes and it comes from books and
movies and TV shows because in 60
minutes all that happens is bullets
whizzing by your head and shit blowing
up the reality is you're not exposed to
violence that often overseas you are
over a long term I guess in the
aggregate but it's not as bad as people
it's not as bad as people I think often
would maybe want to romanticize it as
being bad because then they can maybe
excuse away behaviors that come from
that does that bother you about movies
when you see movies about you should if
if my wife was here all you'd have to
say is do you enjoy watching a war movie
with your husband oh my god she just
said get out of the room get out of the
room because I can't do it like it's
just it's it drives me nuts but it also
sets bad expectations I mean I had some
of the best times of my life overseas as
well and it wasn't all about loss and it
certainly wasn't all about loss of life
there be whirlwind periods of time where
that happened and there'd be other
periods of time where you know we're
just training people you know or we're
going out and actually meeting leaders
in the city and having meals with them
and then yeah that night you might get
your stuff on and go banging for a night
but the same time it's a it's a mix of
all of those things it's I'm grateful
for the experiences that I have from a
military service probably the best day
of my life was the day I got shot I
changed my perspective of who I thought
about who I thought I was it forced me
to lift my head up and think about the
future more than just the job that I had
because my ability to do my job is
thrown into my face I thought I was one
once I realized I wasn't gonna die I was
like oh my god I'm not gonna be able to
do the job I've always wanted to do for
the rest of my life so I started think
about the future again I wouldn't I
would not be sitting here talking you
today if I hadn't had been shot and when
it happened in that moment it was the
worst day of my life and I look back on
it and it probably was the most May it
wasn't the best day of my life but
perhaps one of the most meaningful
changes in direction for me as a human
being so there is positive that comes
out of that negative it's not all bad
it's I think I got more positive more
good than bad from 15 years at war
that's it's interesting that that does
happen right that some bad moment in
your life could lead to a greater life
overall yeah complete shift in
perspective I had never thought about
anything in my life except an insatiable
desire to be a seal and then I became a
seal I'm like this is awesome because
there's pre 9/11 so we just worked out
drank and then we
and drank and then 9/11 happened and I
Mike my world went from conceptual to
practical and it was way different than
I thought it was gonna be because I've
watched the same movies right and then
you get over there like oh wow this is
this is substantially substantially
different and it built and it was a lot
of the things that I thought it wasn't
gonna be and even more than I thought it
possibly could be in some of those
directions but I don't know it people I
think often paint war or the experiences
associated with war is solely negative
and I also just like when it comes to
the conversations and being on the
stream extremes
I would love to pull that more back into
the middle and actually have a
conversation about it I think amazing
changes can come from people in those
environments what is it about war movies
that drive you the most crazy the fact
that almost everything in them isn't
accurate
almost everything biggest thing that
drives me fucking crazy is when grenades
create a fireball really well yet cuz it
happens in like every movie they throw a
grenade and a 55-gallon drum of gasoline
explodes right and people go flying
backwards and cars flip over if you
throw a grenade it goes pop and it puts
some dust up in the air and if you're
waiting for the fireball you're gonna be
there for the rest of your natural life
it's just not coming and they're not
that effective they're fun don't get me
wrong but they're not that effective I
did not know that they don't like create
a fireball no I've never seen a grenade
go off obviously I'm sure Jamie can pull
one up but just cuz it's dust it's all
I've seen one in the video that I'm sure
for a moment like the momentary
explosion there's a flash but other than
that it's literally just dust flying up
in the air what what is the best
military movie that's the most accurate
or the least offensive Navy SEALs store
in Charlie Sheen really no not at all oh
Christ that fucking guy probably thought
more people into coming to the SEAL
Teams than anybody else really oh my god
really yeah I mean he's falling through
skylights with mp5s and handlebar
mustaches you know there's snipers
calling himself god I can't see anything
I'm switching to starlight
blasting people through a concrete wall
they're doing freefall jumps are in
submarines like that's an entire 30-year
career to do all that shit in 60 minutes
they you take that expectation you come
to the teams like god I'm kind of bored
right now so was that the war areas bang
bang I'm gonna run boys yep I want to
make it and he's got the the the
requisite scarf around the neck and
first I'll have one of those so what
kind of asshole wears a red scarf in an
environment where there's no red yeah
it's got green utility is on from
Vietnam wearing a red the Shamal yeah
this is so hilarious so another one it
actually would you know Charlie now like
such a fucking psychotic partier and so
apparently apparently so they came to
the buds compound and did a little bit
of training with the guys and I guess
there was some bathroom breaks and they
just like all right you guys ready for
some more PT oh really
that makes sense I've obviously hearing
that xviii hand but I want to believe
it's true well you know who I hear
trains diligently and really hard and it
like takes it super seriously and it's
like one of the most humble guys you
ever be Keanu Reeves that doesn't
surprise me
yeah it doesn't surprise me either but I
heard some people that have had
interacted with him when he was training
for John wick yeah including my jujitsu
instructor John Jacques Machado my
friend he gave Machado's John jocks
brother and a bunch of other he worked
out with a bunch of their Machado's in
fact I think Carlos as well but you know
he really wanted to learn actual jujitsu
so he trained with them yeah he did real
tactical courses and and so his his
tactical proficiency shows in that movie
and so to get back to stuff that bothers
me
it's the 72 round pistol magazine County
I'm like that's 15 of 2530 for the
shotgun that has 48 rounds it's so that
I can't do it I'm like throwing stuff at
the TV my wife just points she says get
out like I can't
like so Sicario I love Sicario there's a
scene at the border that has one of the
most blatant just errors in the movie
there's a guy pointing a gun he's
supposedly a CIA agent he's pointing a
gun out the windshield and you can see
that the bolt to the rifle is locked to
the rear oh no which means the armored
onset handed it to him you know clear
and safe and he just went and they
filmed it and nobody caught it and I saw
that movie I'm like turn that shit off I
can't watch it
of course yeah it ruins it for me now
why don't they fix stuff like that you
would think that you're making a movie
about military or about guns like yeah
gun nuts are gonna notice that they but
they probably didn't catch it in the
editing process so fast it's probably up
there for three seconds but if you know
I mean I you look at a gun and like you
just if it was your primary tool for
years
you're gonna you're looking for certain
things all the time yes there we go look
first someone who doesn't know though it
looks super serious well that's why
they're still watching the movie and I
left no yep bolt to the rear yeah to the
rear yeah go ahead and pull the trigger
there go ahead son obviously an empty
magazine yeah hey silly yeah so nobody
caught that in the editing process is
what it is not see that no don't you
think they digitally could have moved
that forward a 100% could move because
he didn't fire in that scene anyway yeah
just push that bitch up just Photoshop
that way less significant thing I get
crazy when I watch people play pool in
movies that obviously can't play oh I
cried nuts
yes drives me nuts like if I see someone
like it's supposed to be some pool
hustler and I see so they of a bullshit
bridge in their hand they're gripping
the like you can see things in movies
like my friends who smoke cigarettes say
they can tell when someone doesn't smoke
oh for sure yeah because like when you
smoke there's just like a casual relaxed
way that you're holding the cigarette
and the way you're drawn it but when
someone's like never smoked before and
like yeah
they've got this weird thing they're
doing like how that guy doesn't really
smoke like how the fuck can you tell it
cuz I smoke it's like another thing that
bugs me as you watch and any tactical
scene where they're like moving down a
hallway and it's like why is your gun
pointed at your buddy's face like that's
not cool why are you aiming a strike and
then the way that they make entry into
rooms it's like awesome I like to play
Russian roulette with my life as well
drives me absolutely what about zero
dark thirty that movie fucking sucks
what sucks about it you know what drove
me crazy that time do we have that
redhead lady wood is yelling at all
those trained killers I was like I don't
think they listen to her there are some
creative liberties that are taken in
that movie from soup to nuts I mean like
was that person the lady who yelled at
those guys the one at the woman who's in
charge was that a real human in real
life it was based off of a real human
for sure like a lot of the things in
that movie were based on real events
however if you're trying to get tickets
to get people's seats you know their
butts and seats mm-hmm you get a
glamorized stuff right so a lot of
people because in that movie you know
the the source drives up in the vehicle
and detonates himself that actually
happened that killed a bunch of people
and cows if as long as you look at it as
entertainment that movie is okay if you
look at it with a refined I like are
they doing this correctly no mmm they're
all gonna die yeah I mean it's uh it
just I we would need another four hours
to literally go down a list of things
but it's just things are compressed
things that would never happen happen
for the sake of creating an intoxicating
or a emotional scene on camera and it's
tough to watch because I'm sitting I'm
like you know the door get out the door
get out the door I'm getting anxiety
watching these damn movies oh because
you don't hang out in front of open
doors unless you want to get shot now
how many different things were fucked up
above that movie only the things that
were after the opening scene
solo movies a disaster yeah it's just uh
I don't wanna talk about it
dumbass like myself I'm not a good
fucking movie seems pretty realistic
well think about it from entertainment
it's a great entertaining movie right it
asks the same question about the movie
American sniper or lone survivor they're
all based around certain things that
have been enhanced to make it more
entertaining yes it'd be and I get it
they're there to make money they're not
there to tell historically accurate
do you know Marcus I do not know Marcus
well but I do know Marcus I know him I
don't know how he felt I don't know if
you'd ever say he was making a movie
yeah but I mean I'm sure they only
listened to him so much you know yeah
given how I can again having not been
there and I can only imagine how
horrific that incident must be for him
to deal with on a daily level I would
bet he wasn't very involved I would
almost rather them if that was me I
think I would almost rather say you know
what just make the movie that you want
to make because I don't want to sit here
and explain exactly what happened and
recreate these scenes and talk about how
this person died over here like I would
just go you know go to town is there any
movie that you've ever seen about war
where you go that that makes sense first
ten minutes of Saving Private Ryan is
unbelievable
not for accuracy for capturing the
essence of what it feels like and the
switch between utter fear to excitement
to joy to anger in the matter of a
second another movie that does a good
aspect or a good job of catchment
capturing some of those aspects I would
say is also Black Hawk Down not for
accuracy but to capture the chaos that
how a plan can come unraveled and how
just how chaotic it can be and hence how
sometimes you can feel so helpless but
your only solution is to drive into the
problem instead of moving away from it
so those those capture the essence of it
well from a technical perspective I
honestly cannot think of a single movie
that does it justice Wow
it would have to be like a 50 hour movie
though because of course I mean black
down I think was a multiple day incident
in that movies ninety minutes right so
they get rid of all the the boring BS
stuff that is actually what you do the
vast majority of your job if I look at
my career probably greater than ninety
five percent of my career I spent
training and five percent I spent in
combat really yep and that is that's
average I would say there are people who
are maybe a little bit higher and people
who are a little bit lower but you're
not gonna spend more than at most maybe
ten percent of your career in combat
even if your job is directly tied to
combat because you had a train you got
to plan the missions I mean on our
normal planning cycle was 24 to 72 hours
sitting in front of power point
considering whether or not I should hang
myself or blow my brains out because
we're arguing over the font that we're
using to submit for mission approval
really oh you're studying the weather
you're studying the terrain I've had
slides and mission briefs sent back not
be approved because I didn't orient the
helicopter the correct direction on the
slide to like hey you need to fix this
and then resubmit it like if you wanted
to shut down the average day military it
wouldn't be through a kinetic act you
would need to put some type of code into
Microsoft Office and we're done because
we operate on Microsoft PowerPoint
Microsoft Word and Microsoft Office we'd
sit there and we plan and we would brief
and we'd submit for approval that's
three days then you'd go do an objective
that would last for ten hours
repeat the cycle on to 8dd for that it's
what will you break up the tasks so each
usually the last thing you would want is
one person creating the entire plan so
somebody's doing the communication plan
the medevac plan the insertion plan the
route planning you we don't ever really
brief what we're gonna do inside of the
objective because that's kind of the
super nuts that you train for at all
times like that's everything is to get
there and then okay that's actually our
job but we focus on all those other
things then primary secondary tertiary
plan for each one of those things phase
lines for each one of those things none
of that has ever shown up in any movie
what doesn't show up in any movies is
vast majority of time the intelligence
is bad and you hit what's called a dry
hole you go to a building you approach
the structure you breach the door and
it's just the intelligence is wrong it's
either empty or it's the wrong person
that happens all the time
that doesn't it's not exciting though so
we pay the people money they fix their
door and we go back and we try to find a
person again none of that shows up in
any of the mediums because it's too
they're too compressed with you all your
experience in the military and your your
knowledge of what the real world in
these combat environments is like what
do you how do you feel when you hear
people talk about defunding the military
or decreasing the military or that we
don't need it or that we we shouldn't
have the kind of budget that we have
right now the people that don't
understand the real threats that are out
there and that if you do not have a
well-trained well-funded
experienced military that really
understands these things you've got real
danger at your door yep
I'm glad that they live in a place where
they have enough space to develop those
thoughts because they're not under
pressure because the military is doing
the job that they should be doing there
are like I said so many misconceptions
about what the military does what we do
overseas how many countries we are in
overseas how deep we are into some of
these countries how forecasted and how
forward-looking the military is looking
for emerging threats as opposed to just
responding and all of that creates space
so people can exercise their right to
voice their First Amendment you know
right of saying those things I don't
does it frustrate you though that they
don't have a real understanding I'm
grateful that they live in a place where
they don't have that great understanding
because like I said they have the space
to be confused they're not pushed under
a thumb they're not being told you have
to say this or it's gonna be your
fucking head in the square right I'm I
it is frustrating for me at times but I
balanced that with that's that's what
this country is supposed to be about
you're supposed to be able to voice your
dissent right and I and I believe that
the system will correct and is it does
correct for itself there are people that
believe that but I think the most the
majority of people
again silent majority versus extreme
minority I think those people are in the
extreme minority but they're very vocal
I think most people are incredibly
appreciative of what the military does
but having said that if you've never
served in the military and you've never
been in a combat occupation and then
you've never applied that occupation for
real there's going to be a gap and
there's going to be a gap in
understanding and that's ok so it's
frustrating yes but I'm glad that it
exists and I'm glad that they are not in
this country is not in a position where
they are getting drafted and forced into
that position I'm glad that it was me
that did that and had to bear any weight
or burden that came with that to allow
them to have whatever opinion they want
that's a great perspective that's a very
healthy way of looking at it and I
probably think it's probably the only
manageable way of looking at it I think
you'd go crazy otherwise because the
other way and then you'd what are you
gonna do go to a rally and hold up
another light it's like what's a minute
because it initially I have to fight
back the initial anger but eventually it
gave me a little bit of time and the you
know hopefully relatively stained head
is gonna prevail and I had you know
again that night I got hurt it changed
the way that I thought about things if I
had never gotten hurt and and and I had
never thought about my own mortality and
I never thought about like I spent a lot
of time thinking about whether or not
what I did in the military has had any
impact point zero zero zero one I don't
know if I would have thought about that
if all I had ever done was just doing
the occupation that I did I needed that
lifting of my head to have that perspect
I did I don't think all people do but I
needed that how long do you beiong I was
gonna say I think that night in a in
some ways helps me have the perspective
I have now with those people how how
long is the average career of someone
who's a seal well if you want to retire
you got to do 20 years in a wake-up and
they should change it to wake up wake up
the next day you got a twenty years oh
you have to do 20 years to the day so
wake up the day after your 20th but they
need to change the term also retirement
pay in the military should be in my
opinion at least replaced with money
that you are going to get paid until you
find your second career you're not
retire on three thousand dollars a month
right you know but if you want to make
it to retirement you have to do 20 years
the only reason I get a retirement is
because I was medically retired so they
basically I don't know how it happens in
the system but they put me in that
category is essentially in the made at
twenty years what what happens with most
guys when they hit twenty years do they
retire it's hit or miss on the enlisted
side of the house they start throwing
what at that phase of your life is gonna
be a lot of money at you know try to get
you to reenlist and I never took this
money and so I'm not exactly sure but
it's about five years of reenlistment
and it's about 150 grand which is a ton
of money if you're in the military and
if you relist while you're overseas
every penny of that is tax-free because
you're gonna get it in increments per
150 per year total for the five years
yep it's not here's the deal it's a lot
of money if you're used to having your
head down and you used to make in ninety
a year and you're in your late 30s and
you realize you know oh my god I could
buy a house with that money right you'll
take it right and and every year that
you do over 20 they will add I believe
one-half of a percentage point to your
military retirement so if you do 20
years in the military you will get 50%
of your base pay which doesn't include
the dive paid mo pay jump pay hazardous
duty pay all the difference in money
that I made I get the exact same
retirement which is totally fine and I
signed up for this as a person who was
in front of a radar scope for 20 years
we get the exact same paycheck at the
end if you do 21 years you get 50 and a
half 22 years 51 percent so it keeps
incrementally going up so some guys will
go up to 30 most guys by the time they
get to 20 and I will say this it depends
on what's going on in the world when it
was peak wartime 2007-2009
not a lot of guys were getting out most
of the guys were reopen because they
wanted to strap the boots back on and go
back overseas and they're like hey I'll
reenlist while I'm overseas tax-free
money I get to go do what I want to do
it's a it's a win-win but most people as
the operational tempo has slowed
anecdotally what I've seen is they are
looking more towards the future
gonna get out around 20 if not they'll
get out around 25 after they
that reenlistment bonus and if you're
staying in to like your thirties you're
in for the long haul when you look at
the news do you pay attention to
potential conflicts internationally and
the things that are going on yes and no
I not from a I'm not looking at them to
inform my opinion I'm just kind of
curious as to what the news agencies are
reporting because having lived on the
other side of that and doing things that
will eventually make the news days weeks
or months later the news is generally
behind on that cycle and the military
does do a good job and has continued to
do a better job of kind of forecasting
those things and spreading out as much
as necessary but do you see anything now
like you know I know Trump got a lot of
criticism for saying they were gonna
pull troops out of Syria yeah and when
when you see you know the debate about
that or actions possible actions against
North Korea and all this kind of stuff
like how do you do do you view this I
mean obviously you view this as a guy
who has served and it's been overseas
but do you do you look at things like
these are potential issues that are
coming up and things you need to be
concerned with the Syria and I'm able
the Syria one there are guys from the
community over there they've been
actively engaged Iraq it's funny the
news reported for a long time we've
withdrawn from Iraq all US troops are
out of Iraq no they weren't we've always
had a presence there since we invaded in
2003 so a man and I can go tit for tat
on a lot of issues where the news gets
it wrong which is why I don't
necessarily look at it for me to inform
my opinion mm-hmm Syria certainly any
area where we allow a place for and the
only word I have for it is evil to grow
it's going to happen
the problem with the strategy that I see
it is is that actually so we started in
Afghanistan and again this is my opinion
not the military opinion I can only
speak for myself
we ended to Afghanistan we were
incredibly effective so we cut the head
off of that snake but it spawned two
more you go into Iraq you can argue
whether or not
we were effective but then all of a
sudden we started seeing foreign
fighters coming in from all these
different countries and the tactics that
we started seeing used in Iraq like my
first deployment to Afghanistan in 2003
now 2002 it was not uncommon to drive
around in vehicles that were not
ballistic they were not resistant to
mines it would just it takoma a
thin-skinned Tacoma that bolt would zip
right through
fast-forward to Afghanistan in 2008 and
they're starting to see vehicles being
detonated by bombs that we first saw in
Iraq that were coming across the border
into Syria where they were had the
ability to allow again for lack of a
better term and that evil to grow to
learn to come across the border to
engage American forces than to flee into
a sovereign nation we couldn't do
anything about then we started seeing
that in Afghanistan but we got effective
anytime that these people would get
together and have a large group we'd get
effective that either capturing them or
killing them so they realize they need
to be disaggregated so now we've spread
this I think the last stat that I saw is
Isis is in 64 countries and the problem
that I see with the US military is that
we're very very good at going in and
cutting the head off of the snake but
we're not good at creating and holding
infrastructure and the timeline required
to hold that infrastructure is well
beyond the pallet I think of most
Americans in the best example I can
point to is South Korea we still have
bases with an American presence in South
Korea that war ended decades ago we
still have bases in Germany we have
bases in Italy now we're not necessarily
using them for the same purposes but if
we really want to control that area we
have to be prepared to stay there for
that long and I don't think the US
military one has enough personnel to do
that and I don't think the American
populace has the palette to allow that
to happen do you think that that's
necessary that in order to protect
people from weather whether it's Isis or
whatever comes after Isis I mean yeah
obviously Isis is fairly recent right
okay yeah Isis and they chant yet ISIL
and whatever could be next
so you you feel like we have to maintain
presence
in that part of the world period I think
we should use the military as a measure
of last resort I think that war should
be a measure of absolutely last resort
and I would love to see us evolve to a
point where we use it less and less and
less I describe it as you're standing at
a dam and you can see a little spout
coming out do you put your finger in the
spout knowing that it's not going to fix
the problem but it was going to buy you
time to hopefully have somebody come and
fix the dam right that's the option I
would go for versus just leaving it as
it is and allowing it to continue to
weaken the dam or another sprout would
come out my theory that the military is
really well served to provide that space
to put that finger in that sprout so yes
I think if we find an area where these
ideologies are thriving we have to do
what is necessary to remove that
ideology and hopefully destroy it not
not resettle it somewhere else but
actually destroy it so yes the short
answer is absolutely if we find areas
where we can squash this down we have to
go but I just hope that there's people
smarter than me that have a much longer
term strategy because all we're doing in
my opinion is the finger in the dam and
is there a longer-term strategy like
when you see all the global conflicts I
mean is there a time that we get I mean
it's it's it sounds insane to say that
there's never going to be a time where
there's no war it sounds like an insane
thing to say I don't know if there has
ever been a time at least globally not
that the US was involved but I don't
know if there's ever been a time where
there hasn't been war I don't think
their house I don't think there can be
because and I think we talked about this
the first day I met you
there's ex people and there's Y people
they're not going to get along it
doesn't matter what your belief is you
have an axis somewhere that has another
belief and if you go to the extreme end
of that belief that individual may be
willing to take action against you
violent action against you for your
belief and there's no I don't think
there's a way around that because humans
are just too diverse but is it possible
that one day we'll move past this I mean
is there any plans at all to try to
facilitate some sort of a peaceful world
civilization where you know all nations
kind of get along and some sort of a
mutually agreeable way does anybody have
some sort of hundred year plan is that
hilarious that's a funny thing to say I
mean they didn't brief me on it if it
exists isn't that fucked though I mean
human beings are always going to shoot
and kill each other we're always gonna
have war isn't that fucked since the
inception of human beings it seems like
at least at some level and it thankfully
it's microscopic in comparison to the
overall total right but it's happening I
think it's happened since man has been
walking on earth and the only way that
we feel today that we can protect
ourselves is to have the more dominant
more powerful military and to make sure
that we're the ones that get to dictate
whether or not evil flourishes yeah I
mean that's I would want maybe a I want
the the dominant ability of our military
to continue to grow but I'd like to see
and I think it's already moving this
direction smaller more surgical uses of
it I just the military in my opinion is
not good at building infrastructure and
holding terrain for a long period of
time it's just not were designed to do
right it's not the design of the
military for that matter what what is
the overall view about getting out of
Syria it probably depends on the people
that you ask what about people that you
talk to both sides of the coin III will
get answers from I think we're making a
difference too or wasting our time and I
got that on the initial invasion of Iraq
the initial evasion of Afghanistan there
is at one of the things that I enjoyed
about the community I came from is that
critical thinking was its rewarded it's
not there's no attempt and people think
about this you know you watch Full Metal
Jacket you know you choke yourself with
my hand and you get told what to do and
how to do it and how much time you have
to do it people think that critical
thinking has no place in the military
but where I came from that's what we're
looking for is people who are able to
critically think so there would be we
would have political arguments religious
arguments philosophical arguments in the
team room and then come together and go
do exactly what it is that our nation
expected us to do so you're gonna get
both you get there are people who are
conservative and liberal Republican and
Democrat and everything in between so I
wish I could give you a like a very
precise
answer but I have heard every spectrum
of answer from this is awesome - this is
stupid
I have you know what confuses me I've
heard different opinions on Assad
whether Assad is evil whether he's
gassed is his citizens or whether or not
he's a victim of propaganda some a smear
campaign like whoa this is way past my
pay grade I've heard the same thing and
it's beyond mine as well - it's
frustrating cuz you know when you don't
know whether or not this is some
propaganda or this is a real threat or
whether you know heat or whether it's
something like the Saddam Hussein
situation where yes he was an evil
dictator but also removing him might
create a power vacuum like Lydia at a
power vacuum Qaddafi with Libya
I mean Libya's a horrific example of
that right yeah and I don't I don't know
the long-term solution to those problems
it's like I said I I spend enough of my
waking hours truly questioning whether
or not anything that I was involved in
made my family or your family or Jamie's
family safer but did I did I did my
actions erode what the rest of the world
thinks about the United States of
America and I mean I I flow back and
forth I think it had an impact in the
moment I think it had an impact stopping
the water coming out of the dam I think
it was essential that it needed to be
done but I don't know if any of that has
an impact beyond that that time period
that it occurred how much does it help
you in talking about this stuff to give
you a perspective like I know cleared
hot your podcast yet you're very active
with that how much does that it to help
you flesh these ideas out and have
conversations about them one of the most
cathartic things that I do is talk on
the podcast about these topics so and
I'll do mix between guests and Q&A and
guess what people ask me about they want
to know about war and they want to know
about that stuff and it forces me to sit
there and truly gauge the depth of my
beliefs and then answer the questions
for myself as to why do I believe this
it is by far one of the most cathartic
things that I have done is the ability
to sit down and reflect and I mean I'm
pretty honest about
I mean if people ask me about killing
I'll talk about killing if people ask me
about mistakes I'll tell you the worst
mistakes that I ever made parenting
relationship with my wife military fill
in the blank so it's been huge and be
honest I mean you know this I owe I owe
the suggestion from you to start in that
podcast I you owe you a huge thank you
for giving me that nudge well you're so
good you're you you were great on my
podcast I'd you know I just knew you
would do great at it yeah I'm uh I don't
know I probably have said to too many
people you should start a podcast but
it's worked with so many with Jocko no
no phenomenal and I bet it's cathartic
for him as well too I haven't asked him
about it but I would suspect that it's
the same thing yeah he's uh he's a
unique human he's an American treasure
he should go in a time capsule right
next to Jerry number one man he's
something special but it's also like in
terms of motivation he's a mindset altar
er like you you hear the way he
discusses things and thinks about things
and if you can adopt those ideas and put
them into your own head you really can
shift who you are and and how you move
through this world if you can adopt a
fraction of his ideas yeah
or it'll change your philosophy there
are some people that I see go varied
like there seem to be searching and they
they just want to dive in it's like you
know maintain some of yourself and adopt
as much as that as you possibly can
because you can go too far and anything
but yeah the stuff that he's doing in
the number of people the number of times
his name comes up and in a positive
manner it's unbelievable and I mean I
listen to the Jerry where you're like
you know what Jocko I'm gonna tell you
something that I think I've said too
much
you should start a pot well you know
Goggins is another one you know Goggins
just being a guest in this podcast I
know he hasn't started his own podcast
but one thing he did do is if you listen
to Goggins audiobook in his audio book
he has the book itself which is read by
another guy yep and then him and that
guy discuss various chapters in the book
and discussed the real events that led
to this these different things and how
he felt about them so it's a podcast
wrapped up in a book and it's excellent
so much better than just reading you
know
chapter and all that additional
information and all the the breadth and
depth that you can gather from that yeah
it's an incredible medium I didn't know
I think I told you this I had never
listened to a podcast before I came on
yours so I didn't well we went a little
crazy on that one and I maybe you know I
talked a touch about Guantanamo Bay and
but I still would say the same thing I
just maybe would have been more educated
about the breadth and depth of your
podcast it's I didn't realize at the
feet again I'm a fraction and in
comparison other podcasts out there but
even the volume of response that I get
to mind it's unbelievable the number of
people who are consuming this type of
medium is mind-blowing well it's free
which is great and it's also it's easy
you get it on your phone instantly so
you could be in your car your phone is
Bluetooth up to your car and that you
say oh there's nuclear hot BAM you press
play it starts playing yeah and because
you know essentially it's audio is not
that it's not that big a file it can
stream really easily over 4G like
instantaneously it's uh it's amazing you
know it's just and to have everything
free and instantly accessible like that
so if you're a truck driver if you're
driving long distances for work or if
you're traveling on a plane anything
scroll pick a topic yeah I mean yeah
what do you want to learn about their
podcast out there for it whatever it is
for anything there's crime podcasts and
there's comedy podcasts and politics and
technology it's like it's never-ending
and there's hundreds and hundreds of
thousands of them they're all free yeah
so it's it's an amazing medium and it's
it's also a medium with a very low gate
of entry like it's not difficult to jump
over that gate or to get through all you
really all you need is an account
somewhere yeah and then you can do I've
done a bunch of them just with my iPhone
just using the voice recorder
application from voice notes from a pod
from iPhone
record it and then send it to Jamie and
Jamie will upload them like we've done a
bunch of them on planes or just me and
Toby inch cliff have sat on a plane and
we have a couple of cocktails start
talking shit into the into the eyes of
the phone yeah its crate and then you
know that reaches a million people yeah
I mean the water box
it's you can start a podcast for
foreigner bucks yeah you get a recording
device and some way to gather the sound
and you're off and running
yeah and there's so many people out
there with unique perspectives like you
like Jocko like there's a there's
hundreds of them you know it's just it's
an exciting time you know sorry I dig it
of the medium well listen we did said
fucking three hours how crazy is that
it's almost four o'clock it always feels
like like 90 minutes I know well it's a
time warp in this room and there's
something weird I think it's this table
something going on it seems to be it
Andy I love you buddy yeah but thanks I
appreciate you man Andy stuff ladies and
gentlemen cleared hot podcast available
everywhere go get it by
[Music]